Spider Man- Peter Parker
Early life
Peter Benjamin Parker was born in Queens to Richard and Mary Parker.[44] While Peter was still an infant, his parents were assigned by the CIA to infiltrate the Algerian based spy ring controlled by the communist agent, the Red Skull. The moment the Red Skull learned that Richard and Mary were double agents, he had them killed by one of his agents, the Finisher, in an airplane crash overseas and then framed them for treason.[45] Before their deaths however, Richard and Mary had another child unknown to all others including Peter himself, a daughter and Peter's younger sister, Teresa.[46]

An orphaned Peter went to live with his uncle and aunt, Ben and May Parker, in Forest Hills, New York; they became Peter・s surrogate parents and raised him as if he were their own son. Over the next nine years, Parker grew to be extremely bright in science and became a high honors student at Midtown High School. Parker's shyness and scholastic interest often made him a social outcast and a target for bullies, primarily football star Eugene "Flash" Thompson.

Peter Parker (Earth-616) bit by the radioactive spider from Amazing Fantasy Vol 1 15
Becoming Spider-Man
While attending a public exhibition demonstrating the safe handling of nuclear laboratory waste materials, sponsored by the General Techtronics Corporation, the 15-year-old Peter Parker was bitten on the hand by a spider that had been irradiated by a particle accelerator used in the demonstration. Unbeknownst to him, after the spider fell from his hand, it bit a girl, Cindy Moon on the ankle before it died from the radiation.[47] Making his way home afterwards, Peter was almost hit by a car; when Peter jumped out of the way, Peter discovered he had somehow gained incredible strength, agility, and the ability to cling to walls, spider-like traits that he immediately associated with the spider bite.[2]

Peter Parker (Earth-616) from Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 1 0001
Introducing: Spider-Man!

Encountering an ad offering a cash prize for staying in the ring for three minutes with professional wrestler Joseph "Crusher" Hogan, Peter decided this would be a good way to test his powers. Wearing a mask to avoid potential embarrassment in case he lost the match, Peter easily defeated his opponent. TV producer Maxwell Shiffman observed his performance and convinced him to go on television with his 'act.' Designing a full costume and fabricating a fluid similar to a spider's web and wrist-mounted web-shooters, Peter called himself Spider-Man, becoming an immediate sensation.

Following his first TV appearance, Peter failed to act to stop an escaping thief, claiming that it was not his responsibility to do so. Peter forgot the incident as his fame rose, but days later he returned home at night to find his Uncle Ben had been murdered. Learning the police had the burglar responsible holed up in a warehouse, Peter changed to Spider-Man and easily captured him only to discover he was the same thief he had allowed to escape earlier. Filled with remorse, he realized that when someone has power, he has an obligation to use it responsibly, so he decided to become a superhero.[2]

Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 546 Textless 2nd Printing
Peter's early career as Spider-Man

Taking on Great Responsibility
The first problem young Peter faced was the lack of money with the death of his uncle. Due to the fact that his Aunt May was too weak to work and Peter was seen as fragile, he decided to get a job, even though Aunt May wanted him to become a scientist instead. Peter even thought about using his spider powers for crime, but decided against it after thinking how his Aunt would react to him in jail.

However, it was seeming impossible to him to find a job in order to pay his growing debts. As Spider-Man, he was not able to continue his career as TV star, because of J. Jonah Jameson, owner of the NOW Magazine and the newspaper Daily Bugle. Jameson started a campaign against Spidey, stating that he was a bad influence for children and a criminal for taking justice into his own hands, referring to the situation with the burglar. These protests start taking effect and turning the public against Spider-Man, causing Spidey's manager to leave him, impeding his ability to earn money even as Spider-Man.[33]

Peter searched through the wanted ads, only to be rejected by all the employers. Not being able to use his super-powers as Spider-Man infuriated Peter, and his fury only intensified after seeing his Aunt May selling her jewelry to try and earn some money.

Spidey's second heroic action was to save Jameson's astronaut son, John Jameson from an accident in a deviated space capsule. Spider-Man hitched a ride on a small airplane, and boarded the capsule during re-entry. Spidey then attached the missing capsule piece, allowing it to land safely. Although he had saved John, Spidey was still blamed by J.J. Jameson for the accident.

Later, trying to find a way to make some money, he decided to join the superhero team the Fantastic Four. Spidey intruded into the Baxter Building, battling the FF, as a way of showing them his power, but the team refused Spidey's entry after explaining to him that they did not get paid for their actions and that they were a family, not an enterprise. Later that day, the Russian criminal and master of disguise known as the Chameleon used Spider-Man's identity to steal defense missile plans. The real Spidey was used by Chameleon as a pawn to escape the scene without problems. After managing to avoid capture by the police, Spider-Man caught Chameleon in a helicopter before he could reach a soviet submarine and handed him in to the authorities.[33] Peter finally found a way to make money when the Daily Bugle asked for photos of the winged criminal known as the Vulture. Not only did Spider-Man defeat the villain, he also found a way to take photos, which caused J.J. Jameson to hire Peter to get him pictures of Spider-Man, under the condition that the publicist would not ask Peter how he took the pictures.[48]

Early in his career, Spider-Man fought many villains including the Tinkerer,[48] Doctor Octopus,[49] the Sandman,[50] Doctor Doom,[51] the Fox,[52] the Lizard,[53] the Living Brain,[54] Electro,[55] the Big Man and his Enforcers,[56] Mysterio,[57] Kraven the Hunter,[58] and his deadliest foe of all time: the Green Goblin.[59] Several of these villains would form the Sinister Six, under the leadership of Doctor Octopus, a team who tried to get Spider-Man by kidnapping Aunt May and trying to force Peter to "call" him. They failed.[60]

During this time, Parker dated Betty Brant of the Daily Bugle, although Liz Allan had a crush on him. At the same time, both Peter's Aunt May and their neighbor, Anna Watson, were constantly encouraging Parker to date Anna's niece, Mary Jane Watson.

Before his high school graduation Peter continued to fight off menaces, including the Scorpion,[61] Spencer Smythe's Spider-Slayers,[3] the Crime-Master,[62] and the Molten Man.[63] He also assisted the recently formed Avengers in defeating a Spider-Man robot created by Kang.[64]

At one point, Aunt May's health got so bad that she suffered from a heart attack. Peter heard the news while he and the Human Torch were fighting the Green Goblin, and he was forced to flee in order to get to her quickly. However, this only convinced the public at-large that Spidey was a coward who had fled from a battle.[65] Die-hard Spider-Man fans like Flash Thompson continued to support him, while J. Jonah Jameson ran editions in the Bugle claiming that he himself scared Spider-Man off. While looking after Aunt May, Spider-Man was forced to escape yet again from the Sandman in order to get home quickly. When he learned that his aunt's health had improved, he vowed to prove the world wrong about him.[66] Meanwhile, a worried Torch tried to look for Spidey, but only managed to get captured by the Sandman. Spider-Man rescued him and defeated his enemy, wiping the smirk off of Jameson's face and getting the world to appreciate him again.[67]

Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 39 Textless
Spidey Unmasked!

A Hero in the University
Eventually, Peter graduated from high school as valedictorian[68] and enrolled at Empire State University on a science scholarship,[63] meeting new classmates such as Harry Osborn and Gwen Stacy.[69] Even though he got off to a bad start with them, finally Peter became friends with them, as well as Flash. The Green Goblin came back and discovered Spider-Man's identity, kidnapping him and revealing his own alter-ego, that of Norman Osborn, Harry's father. In a furious battle, the villain lost all memories of his time as a supervillain.[70]

During that time, Spider-Man fought new foes such as the Rhino,[71] the Shocker,[72] as well as teaming up with Dr. Strange to defeat the wizard known as Xandu.[73] The Avengers also tried to make him a member at one point, but Spider-Man declined the offer.[74] Also, Peter finally met Mary Jane Watson,[75] but at that time he was interested in Gwen, so Mary Jane started dating Harry.

After finding an old newspaper clipping that identifies that his parents were traitors to their country in his aunt・s house, Peter decided to learn the full story, traveling to Algeria with the Fantastic Four's aid. He learns that his parents were supposedly spies who worked for the Red Skull and he came across their ID badges for the Skull's organization. Spider-Man also stumbles upon the original Nazi Red Skull and his men, who previously worked for the other Red Skull. In the aftermath, he finds that his father's CIA identification card, proving to Peter that his parents were secret government operatives. With evidence to clear his parents' names, Peter returns to the States.[45]

Weeks later, after the return of Kraven and battling a new Vulture,[76] Peter started wondering if he may be better off not being Spider-Man. Crime rose and a new Kingpin appeared in New York, and abducted J. J. Jameson. Peter returned to his heroic identity, and Frederick Foswell, formerly the criminal Big Man, sacrificed his life to save Jameson's.[77]

A mystical artifact called the Tablet of Life and Time exhibited in ESU was stolen by the Kingpin; the Tablet passed over many people who tried to get it, including Spider-Man, Shocker (who was working for Kingpin) and Man Mountain Marko (who was working for the Maggia crime family). Finally the Tablet got to the Maggia boss, Silvermane, who forced Doctor Curt Connors to translate the tablet. Connors managed to create a powerful rejuvenation serum from it. Silvermane drank it and became a young man again. But the serum made Silvermane regress beyond birth. Meanwhile Connors, as the Lizard, escaped, and later was returned to normal by Spider-Man again.[78]

The Death of the Stacys
Peter Parker (Earth-616) and George Stacy (Earth-616) from Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 90 0001
The Death of George Stacy

Soon after, Doctor Octopus managed to get his metallic arms again and broke free from prison. After Spider-Man thwarted his attempt to hijack a plane, he started attacking the city's main power plant. Although Spider-Man escaped from Ock, Spider-Man was attacked by surprise by Ock the next day. They battled on a rooftop and Captain Stacy died when saving a child from falling debris. Before dying, Stacy revealed to Spider-Man he knew his identity, and asked him to take care of Gwen.[79]

Being accused for Stacy's death, Spider-Man faced some heroes who wanted to take him to authorities, such as the X-Man Iceman[80] and the beginner hero the Prowler.[81] Peter even went to London to prevent Gwen's departure forever, after her father's death.[82]

Things got worse. Harry became addicted to LSD, and Peter, along with Gwen and Mary Jane, took care of him. This familial stress caused Norman Osborn's Green Goblin persona to return, and he once again battled Spider-Man. During the battle Norman was exposed to his son's declining condition in the hospital. This severed the control of the Green Goblin persona over Norman and caused Norman to have amnesia again.[83]

Peter Parker (Earth-616) with six arms from Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 100
Six arms!

With his secret identity making his life impossible, Peter tried to give up being Spider-Man and created a cure for his powers that instead made him grow four extra arms.[84] With the help of Curt Connors he found a cure, fighting Morbius the Living Vampire and Connors' alter-ego the Lizard in the process.[85]

Peter Parker (Earth-616) and dead Gwendolyne Stacy (Earth-616) from Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 121 0001
The Night Gwen Stacy Died!

Norman Osborn's alter-ego resurfaced again and the Green Goblin kidnapped Gwen Stacy. Spider-Man found them at the George Washington Bridge, where they fought and Gwen fell from the bridge. She died when Spider-Man reached her with a web-line, breaking her neck.[86] The Goblin escaped. A furious Peter searched, found and battled him again. In this battle Norman was impaled with his own Goblin Glider, apparently killing himself.

Peter was extremely distraught over the death of Gwen, possibly even more so than when Uncle Ben died. An equally traumatized Mary Jane tried to comfort Peter after Gwen's death; she was initially brushed off, but they eventually got closer.[87]

After being accused of the death of both Stacys, and attending Gwen's funeral as Peter, Spider-Man was confronted by heroes such as Power Man[88] and the Punisher.[89] Later, Harry, who had discerned Spider-Man's identity and wanted revenge for his father's death, took the Green Goblin mantle and kidnapped Flash Thompson, Mary Jane and Aunt May in an attempt to lure him out and kill him. Spider-Man managed to find him at his father's old home and defeated him, leaving him to the authorities. Harry was sent to an asylum.[90]

Peter Parker (Earth-616) vs. Peter Parker (Ben Reilly) (Earth-616)
"Even if I live... I die!"

Peter later had to go on a work trip with Robbie Robertson, and he and Mary Jane shared their first kiss at the airport. After returning from the trip to France, Peter found an alive Gwen Stacy, but could not bear to rekindle their relationship because of his kiss with MJ. With the help of Ned Leeds, Spider-Man found out that this Gwen was a clone created by the Jackal, who, after defeating Spider-Man with the help of Tarantula, was revealed to be Peter's professor, Miles Warren.[91]

After kidnapping Leeds and Spider-Man, Warren explained to the hero that he loved Gwen and blamed Spider-Man for her death. And after managing to clone a frog, he used a blood sample from Gwen to clone her. Later, Spider-Man was left unconscious in a stadium, where he battled a clone of himself to save Ned from a bomb.

Gwen's clone made Jackal realize everything was wrong, so he freed Ned and the bomb exploded, apparently killing the Jackal and the Spider-Clone. Spider-Man took the corpse of his clone and buried it at an industrial chimney, while the clone of Gwen Stacy left New York.[92] Unsure whether he was the real Peter Parker or the clone, he had Curt Connors run tests on him. However, he never checked the results, being convinced by his emotions for Mary Jane that he must be the original.[93]

A New Appreciation for Life
Peter had to leave Betty Brant's engagement party to defeat the Shocker, causing friction between him and Mary Jane.[94] Peter served as best man at Ned Leeds's and Betty Brant's wedding.[95] Spider-Man later faced Harry's psychologist, Bart Hamilton, who became the third Green Goblin, and who, after various encounters, died at the hands of Harry.[96] Peter proposed marriage to Mary Jane,[97] but she did not accept, making their relationship falter. MJ moved to Florida with her Aunt Anna.[98]

Spider-Man managed to clear his name, while Peter Parker graduated from ESU.[99] Also, Spencer Smythe, the creator of the Spider-Slayers, died from an illness after trying to kill Spider-Man and Jameson, the men he blamed for ruining his life.[100]

Peter Parker and Felicia Hardy (Earth-616) from Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 194 0001
Never let the Black Cat cross your path!

As Peter continued to live on his own, his Aunt May decided to transform her home into a senior citizens' boarding house. At one point, Mysterio managed to convince the wall-crawler that she had died.[101] Spider-Man later discovered that she had been kidnapped by the same burglar who had shot his Uncle Ben. After cornering him furiously and revealing that he was the nephew of Ben Parker, the burglar died of fright.[102]

At one point Parker began a romantic relationship and heroic partnership with the Black Cat,[103] developing feelings for her and even starting to love her, although Parker later broke it off due to the Black Cat's disdain for Parker's life apart from being Spider-Man.

The Alien Costume Saga
Spider-Man was among the heroes kidnapped by the powerful Beyonder to fight in his "Secret Wars."[104] When his costume was damaged, Parker tried using the futuristic technology on the Beyonder's planet to repair it, and instead, replaced it with an alien "symbiote" which transformed into a black version of Spider-Man's costume, perhaps based on that of the newly appeared Spider-Woman. Parker used the symbiote for his costume, which was capable of transforming into street clothing as well as generating webs on its own.[105]

Once the Secret Wars came to an end, Peter returned to Earth along with the other abducted superhumans and continued to use the black suit.[106] He eventually noticed the costume behaved strangely, so he sought help from the Fantastic Four's Mister Fantastic, who discovered the suit was a living organism. He helped remove the costume by force, and kept it at the Fantastic Four's headquarters in captivity.[107] The symbiote would later escape, plaguing the life of Parker again and ultimately merging with one of Spider-Man's critics, Eddie Brock, creating the villain Venom. In a climatic fight, Spider-Man defeated this new foe.[108]

Peter Parker (Earth-616) with Venom (Symbiote) (Earth-616) for the first time
Spider-Man's symbiote costume.

Improving Life
As Spider-Man, Parker met and fought alongside nearly every hero in Manhattan, if not the world. Although he fought alongside the Avengers many times,[64] he unsuccessfully (for now) tried to join their number when he learned of the financial stipend their members received. Parker helped them stop an invasion and subsequent breakout of the energy research and villain internment facility, Project Pegasus. Spider-Man was deemed, however, to disrupt the team's cohesiveness (perhaps due to either his loner nature, lack of experience, or annoying sense of humor), and was denied membership. Later, however, Spider-Man met the international mercenary Silver Sable, often working on her behalf.[109]

Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 316 Textless
Vs. Venom

Soon after a fight with Spider-Slayer,[110] Peter and Mary Jane married.[111] Spider-Man later defeated Venom in battle again. Peter's old friend Harry Osborn leased the couple a loft in the condo that Harry and his family were also living in. Mary Jane's cousin Kristy also temporarily moved in with the Parkers at one point.[112] Eventually, however, the Parkers had to move into a room in Aunt May's house due to financial problems.[113]

At this time, Spider-Man once again allied with the Avengers to stop the alien Nebula from destroying reality with her Infinity Union. An increasingly unnerved Spider-Man, unaccustomed to dealing with cosmic-scale menaces, accidentally allowed Nebula to absorb the power of the Infinity Union, although the Avengers, Spider-Man, and the alien Stranger thwarted her regardless. Parker was told again that Spider-Man might not be suited for Avengers membership, although later he was inducted into their number on a provisional basis.[114]

Parker later returned to his studies and postgraduate work as a lab assistant at Empire State University.[115] During this time, Parker was briefly endowed with the powers of Captain Universe and the Enigma Force, in order to stop a series of robots, including the mutant-killing Tri-Sentinel. Once the menace was defeated, the extra powers he gained left him.[116]

Kraven's Last Hunt
For more details on this topic, see Kraven's Last Hunt.
After being defeated once again, Kraven the Hunter's remaining sanity was destroyed. He hatched a scheme to finally defeat Spider-Man. While Spider-Man swung around the city, Kraven hit him with a tranquilizer dart. Spider-Man started hallucinating and Kraven knocked him down and captured him in a net. He shot Spider-Man with a rifle, apparently killing him. In reality his drugs kept him completely immobile, so that Kraven could bury him alive. Kraven then donned a copy of Spider-Man's costume, calling himself "The Spider," he tried to become a better Spider-Man than Peter. He ended up brutally attacking and beating criminals, ultimately sending fifteen men to the hospital and killing one. The Spider confronted Vermin, who had resurfaced and killed various people, in the sewers. During the ensuing fight, The Spider overpowered Vermin and captures him.

After two weeks, Kraven・s drug eventually wore off and Spider-Man emerged from his grave. He learned from a newspaper that someone has been impersonating him for two weeks. He reunited with Mary Jane at their apartment before going to confront Kraven. However, he refused to fight, saying that by "killing" and impersonating him, he had proven his superiority. Kraven led Spider-Man to a caged Vermin and released him, goading Vermin into attacking Spider-Man. At first Spider-Man fought back but then backed off, refusing to play Kraven's game. Vermin overwhelmed him and fled with Spider-Man following him. Having finished his greatest hunt, Kraven left a confession saying the he impersonated Spider-Man for the past two weeks and then committed suicide with a hunting rifle. Spider-Man took down Vermin and handed him over to the police, who found Kraven's confession.[117][118][119]

The Clone Saga
Aunt May supposedly suffered a debilitating heart attack. This also led to the Parkers meeting Ben Reilly, a clone of himself whom Peter had fought earlier. Reilly created a similar spider-costume, dubbed the Scarlet Spider by the Daily Bugle, and helped Spider-Man in his adventures. Shortly afterward, Mary Jane became pregnant, and the apparent revelation that Ben was the original Peter Parker and Peter the clone prompted Peter to retire from Spider-Man and relocate to Portland. After a crisis in Portland resulted in minor damage to Peter's cellular structure that prevented him from accessing his powers, Peter chose to accept retirement and focus on his new family.

Back in New York, Reilly eventually assumed the identity of Spider-Man himself, since the second villain by the name of Doctor Octopus tarnished the reputation of the Scarlet Spider. After a few months in Portland, Peter and Mary Jane returned to New York, with Peter's powers returning after a strange illness was revealed to be his body 'resetting' itself, although his powers were unpredictable for a while and prone to cutting out at inopportune moments. As Peter's powers returned, however, he and Ben began to contemplate the possibility of both of them acting as Spider-Man after the recent war against Onslaught resulted in the loss of the FF and so many of the Avengers. This plan was cut short when Mary Jane was rushed to hospital while giving birth due to an unexpected medical emergency, later revealed to have been staged by Norman Osborn, the original Green Goblin; Osborn had survived his apparent death due to an unexpected increased healing factor as part of his powers that nobody had known about before. Having stolen the body of the Parker's baby, the Goblin revealed that he had manipulated the tests that confirmed that Peter was the clone and Ben the original with the goal of destroying Peter's life, angered when Peter had managed to move past that revelation to make a new life for himself. During the subsequent confrontation, Ben Reilly jumped in front of the Goblin's glider when he sent it flying towards Peter, sacrificing himself to save Parker. Reilly's body disintegrated after his death, finally convincing Peter that he was the original. Due to this "revelation" and the fact that his daughter had died, Peter once again became Spider-Man.[120][121][122][123][124]

The Final Chapter
After many more months of adventuring, Norman Osborn returned to take control of the Daily Bugle, providing faked evidence that he had never been the Green Goblin and discrediting all contradicting sources. He angered Peter, which caused Spider-Man to brutally beat Norman, which was all caught on a hidden camera in his house. With the staged confrontation and the apparent murder of a small-time criminal using what appeared to be Spider-Man's webbing, Osborn was able to create the fake impression that Spider-Man was a straightforward criminal, and increased pressure was placed on capturing him. In order to continue his crime-fighting career and investigate the fraudulent claims, Parker relinquished his Spider-Man identity while creating four unique and separate ones: Dusk, Hornet, Prodigy, and Ricochet. As Dusk, Parker was able to investigate the villain Trapster-- the only person capable of creating a convincing duplicate of his webbing -- and convince him to confess to the crime to hurt Osborn and publicly exonerate Spider-Man of the murder charge. He also used Prodigy to present fake evidence that someone else had attacked Osborn dressed as Spider-Man, at which point he resumed his Spider-Man identity[125][126][127][128]. Later, the Golden Age hero Black Marvel acquired the four costumes and gave them to four teenagers, forming a team he named the Slingers.[129]

When the Avengers were attempting to reform their number after disbanding for a year after the crisis known as Onslaught, Spider-Man was contacted due to his past affiliation with them. However, by his own choice, Parker decided to dissolve ties with the Avengers.[130]

Aunt May was later discovered to still be alive; the woman who seemingly died was in actuality a genetically modified actress. Parker, Mary Jane, and Aunt May moved to an apartment in Manhattan[131][83][132]. Peter had promised Mary Jane to give up his Spider-Man identity, but he would continually sneak out at night as Spider-Man. Their marriage began to strain, in part because of Mary Jane's new modeling career and in part because she discovered Peter's secret. Before they could reconcile, however, Mary Jane was supposedly killed when her airplane exploded[133]. For a long time, Peter refused to believe her dead, but eventually grew to accept it. Peter discovered Mary Jane was alive, captured by a villain who had been stalking her prior to her airplane flight[134]. After a brief reconciliation, Mary Jane requested to leave Peter once more, saying that she needed time to adjust by herself.[135] but Peter and Mary Jane later reunited.

Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 500 Textless
Spider-Man with MJ Watson and his enemies

Totemic Adventures
Peter soon took a job as a teacher at his somewhat beloved Midtown High. After getting this job, he encountered a strange man named Ezekiel Sims who possessed powers very similar to his, and presented Peter with the possibility that his powers had been bestowed on him by mystical forces, effectively making Peter a "totem" that connected the animal and human realms.[136]

Peter soon encountered villains linked to him through his new-found nature as a Spider-Totem. The first of them was Morlun, who almost beat Spider-Man to death, and seemingly met his end after Peter injected himself with a lethal dose of radiation, which hurt Morlun whenever they made contact and weakened him enough for his servant Dex to take the opportunity and shoot him down. Following the exhausting encounter with Morlun, Peter let his guard down, allowing Aunt May to discover his secret identity when she entered his apartment and found him sleeping with his tattered costume on the floor.[137] After May came to grips with the fact her nephew was Spider-Man, their relationship grew stronger than ever.[138] Mary Jane Watson also returned to Peter's life, and both lovers reunited for good.[135]

After defeating Shathra, a predator who originated from the Astral Plane,[139] Spider-Man was warned by Ezekiel about the coming of the Gatekeeper, a mystical being who allegedly saw Peter unworthy of his powers and wanted to kill him.[140] During an ensuing confrontation against Spider-Man, the Gatekeeper revealed him the truth. Peter was chosen to become a Spider-Totem due to his nature, a prey to bullying during his teenage years whose reserving anger made him the perfect candidate to become a hunter, one who would never give in to submission again. Through visions imparted by the Gatekeeper, Peter also discovered that Ezekiel was the one Spider-Totem deemed unworthy, due to having searched for the source of the power instead of having it bestowed upon him, and that the predators that confronted Peter were actually meant for Ezekiel.[141] As Peter was recovering from the encounter with the Gatekeeper, Ezekiel brought him to the temple where he had obtained his powers in South America and planned to use him in a sacrificial ritual to maintain his abilities. The ritual linked Peter's mind with Ezekiel's, and made him realize he had wasted his gifts unlike Peter. When a spider monster emerged to kill Peter, Ezekiel gave his life to save him. A shaman named Miguel who had previously helped Ezekiel buried his body. When Peter asked him whether his powers came from science or magic, Miguel told him that one explanation didn't necessarily contradict the other.[142]

The Queen
Changes came to Spider-Man's very own physical nature when he confronted a new villain known as the Queen, who invaded New York and used her powers to take control over the citizens who possessed the vestige of an insect gene. As a consequence of a mutation caused by the Queen during a confrontation against her, Peter's body began to slowly transform into that of a giant spider which fell prey to the Queen's mind-control. The Queen planned to use Peter's mutated body to breed, but it seemingly died due to complications arising from the transformation. From the husk of his monstrous form, Peter emerged alive and well, having gained the ability to produce organic webbing, in addition to augmented strength and spider-sense. During a subsequent fight against the Queen, Spider-Man disarmed a bomb she planned to detonate, and she was seemingly killed when S.H.I.E.L.D. attacked her subterranean base.[143]

The Other
Months following the disbandment of the Avengers, Peter joined forces with a fortuitous group of heroes present in the Raft Superhuman Security Prison to help contain escaping inmates following a massive breakout. Once the situation was contained, the group remained together and became the New Avengers, without the government involvement and financial burdens common to Avengers' history.[144] Peter, May and Mary Jane subsequently moved to the team's headquarters in the Avengers Tower after both Peter's and May's places were destroyed by a mutated former classmate of his named Charlie Weiderman.[145]

Shortly after joining the New Avengers, Peter discovered that his skin was shedding for some reason. Knowing the situation was hopeless, Morlun got into a fight with him and brutally defeated him, even ripping his left eye out and eating it. The bloodied, rapidly shedding Spider-Man was rushed to the hospital with extreme wounds. Morlun attacked him there again. MJ attempted to stop him, but Morlun threw her across the room and broke her arm. However, Peter woke up and his savage, animalistic spider-side took over, developing sharp teeth and stingers in his wrists. He killed Morlun in front of Mary Jane, succumbing to his injuries and dying after.

Iron Man took away Peter's body, but as the New Avengers mourned over his presumed death in another room, Spider-Man's body disappeared, leaving behind a shed skin. It turned out that his body had briefly sprung to life and formed a cocoon underneath the George Washington Bridge. In the cocoon, a voice told Peter he never understood what he was and is too scared to truly be a "Spider-Man", only focusing on his human part and not his spider part. Morlun managed to kill the human, but the spider survived and killed Morlun to save them both. It told him that he would only be reborn if he accepted both parts, asking him: "Are you the man who dreamed of being a spider? Or the spider who dreamed of being a man? Are you the one...or are you the other?" Peter agreed and was resurrected with a new and completely healed body, as well as augmented spider-powers. He went to the Avengers Tower and reunites with MJ and Aunt May.

Shortly afterwards, he encountered a being made of thousands of pirate spiders that ate his old body called Ero, who claimed that they are both parts of the same whole, that cosmic forces are vying for control of his life and that ：she； is his opposite. She told him a spider-deity known as the Great Weaver had thought that his death was premature and revived him, but that others disagreed and were being pulled in different directions as a result. Stating that she had come to kill him and restore the natural order, after a brief fight "she" was defeated and escaped. Changes resulting from the confrontation with Morlun and the shedding of his skin caused Peter to try and reconcile 'the man and the spider' within himself. While saving everyone inside collapsing building, he discovered he gained greater speed; poisonous, razor-sharp stingers located within his arms; night vision; increased sensory awareness via vibratory patterns transmitted through the hairs on his body and through his web lines; a greater clinging ability; and equal superhuman strength in order to carry heavy objects on his back.[146][147][148]

Civil War
Civil War Vol 1 3 Turner Variant Textless
Spider-Man in the Iron Spider suit

Despite misgivings and with the support of his family, Peter initially sided with mentor Iron Man in support of superhero registration, after being unsure initially, as he felt that heroes needed to get public support for their actions. Many of the heroes on that side had public identities, with him being the only major supporter without one following Iron Man's unmasking; Iron Man also said it was a positive thing to unmask if they were to gain support. He planned to liquidate his assets and flee the country in case his unmasking caused any problems, but his family suggested against it, believing that Peter needed to get recognition for his actions. With Iron Man at his side, at a live press conference in Washington, D.C., Peter unmasked and said "My name is Peter Parker, and I have been Spider-Man since I was 15 years old". His siding with the pro-registration heroes also saw him gaining the "Iron Spider" armor, which Stark had been building since Peter's death and resurrection.[149]

Reaction to the unmasking was diverse. Among the negative supporters were Jameson, who fainted upon watching the broadcast and came to "disown" Peter, having seen him like a son over the years;[150] Deb Whitman, who wrote and published a scathing memoir titled Two-Faced: How Spider-Man Ruined My Life, albeit under duress from Jameson;[151] Black Cat, who briefly went berserk for being left out of the loop, though she and Peter managed to work it out; Liz Allan, who blamed Peter for causing so much suffering in her life; and the Molten Man, who joined the Chameleon in order to avenge the grief and misery heaped upon his stepsister.[152] Besides Mary Jane and Aunt May, Peter had others who were more understanding and stood up for him, such as Betty Brant and Flash Thompson.[153]

Peter Parker (Earth-616) from Civil War Vol 1 1 0002
"Any questions?": Peter publicly unmasks

However, fighting against the fugitive heroes and the existence of the Thor clone and a prison for the unregistered in the Negative Zone created by Iron Man left a poor taste in his mouth, and he even found out that Iron Man was tracking him with the Iron Spider Armor. This caused him to get Aunt May and MJ out of the Tower and into hiding.[154][155] He confronted Stark, who quickly overrode his armor; however, Peter then overrode Stark's command and escaped.[156] In retaliation, Maria Hill sent the pro-registration Thunderbolts, a group of registered villains, after him.[157] While running through the sewers, he is attacked by the Jester and Jack O'Lantern. They beat up Spider-Man, but before they can capture him, the Punisher killed them and brought Spider-Man to the Secret Avengers headquarters.[158] After joining the team and reuniting with his wife and aunt, Spider-Man interrupted a news broadcast, announcing his mistake of registering, giving his allegiance to the anti-registered and gives a description of the Negative Zone Prison. Spider-Man was one of the few heroes who did not accept the general amnesty after the arrest and death of Captain America, continuing to work with the underground New Avengers.[159][160]

Peter took Cap's death hard, even blaming himself for his death despite not being present at the shooting. After an encounter with Rhino and receiving condolence from Wolverine, Spider-Man watched Cap's funeral on TV with the New Avengers; when the team discussed why they didn't go, he said they could not risk getting arrested by Tony Stark on the spot.[161]

Back in Black
Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 539 Textless
Back in Black

Peter's now-public identity allowed the Kingpin to put a hit on Parker's family. His sniper shot at him at his apartment. Peter saved Mary Jane, but the bullet hit Aunt May.[159] He takes his aunt to a hospital where she falls into a coma. Tracking the sniper's gun to a warehouse full of arms dealers, viciously beats everyone and gets the names of the dealers who traffics those guns. Peter donned a cloth version of his black suit to find those who were responsible for hurting his family. Getting the sniper・s name from the gun dealers, he tracked him and beat him but he was killed by another assassin. He found the gunman talking to Fisk on his cell phone. Peter takes him to a sewer pipe, beats him and tells him to tell everyone to stay away from his family. He arrives at Ryker's Island during a prison riot lead by the Kingpin to confront him. Spider-Man savagely beat the crime-lord and taunts him on his lack of real powers. Telling Fisk that after his aunt died, he would kill him; the then threatened the other inmates with a slow and painful death if they ever harmed his family before leaving.[162]

Spider-Man also confronted Ero, who had been posing as a nurse in Midtown High ：Miss Arrow； and captured Flash Thompson to use him to hatch her eggs. They begin to fight using their stingers but Ero manages to hit him in the shoulder, paralyzing him. She decides to place her eggs inside of him instead of Flash. Spider-Man was saved by Betty Brant, who shot the egg sac with a shotgun. Ero tried to escape but Spider-Man lured her into an aviary, where she was devoured by hundreds of birds. Spider-Man stepped on the last spider remaining.[147]

Realizing he could not afford for his identity to be public knowledge, Peter agreed to aid the Scarlet Spiders in return for their help in re-establishing his secret identity. Telling the media that Parker was part of their team but was discharged and drawing confusion as to if Parker is the first and only Spider-Man.[163] Towards the end of his search, Peter even had an encounter with the One-Above-All, who asked Peter to let his Aunt go, saying death it's a natural part of life.[164]

One More Day
Peter grew increasingly desperate to save the life of his Aunt May. He sought the help of Dr. Strange, finding that even magic could not help him save Aunt May's life. After appealing to Tony Stark, Jarvis was sent with $2 million to pay the hospital fees and give her the best care possible. At one point, Eddie Brock was found in Aunt May's room; where he attempted to commit suicide by jumping out of the window. The inter-dimensional Demon Mephisto offered to save Aunt May in exchange for Peter and MJ's love. As part of Mephisto's deal, everyone would forget Peter's identity as Spider-Man. Because of this decision, the daughter they would have had never existed.[165]

Brand New Day
Then Mephisto re-arranged history to make it so that Peter unwittingly would not show up to his wedding day, but stayed with Mary Jane as a long time couple. But this re-arrangement also caused it to be Doctor Strange who erased people's memories about Parker's secret identity (except Mary Jane, the Jackal, and all his clones- although he later shared his identity with the Fantastic Four- as well as somehow restoring Harry Osborn to life) and protected Peter with a "psychic blindspot," preventing people from being able to consciously deduce that Peter Parker and Spider-Man were the same person unless anyone actually saw him take his mask off. But Mary Jane was bitterly hurt from having knowledge of a time of great emotional pain that no one else on the planet remembered. She and Peter agreed that they were still in love with each other but they had to accept that their relationship put everyone they cared about in danger and that it was best for them to remain as friends.[166]

Back from five years in a European rehab center was Harry Osborn[165]. While searching for a job, Peter joined the Daily Bugle again which was now bought out by Dexter Bennett, and began to work as a paparazzi reporter, which was something that neither his Aunt May or Harry approved of[167]. However, after his photographs of the celebrity Bobby Carr resulted in the deaths of women by a crazed super villain stalker who was obsessed with him, Peter decided to destroy the new photos he took resulting in Bennett firing him[168]. Peter soon learned that Bennett had blacklisted him to nearly every news source in town preventing Peter from finding work. However, Harry suggested that Peter find a job at a news source that was Bennett's enemy, which he did by joining the Front Line as it was not under Bennett's influence.[169]

Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 597 Textless
Spider-Man fighting Norman's Dark Avengers

Dark Reign & American Son
After the Skrull Invasion, Norman Osborn, who had killed the Skrull Queen that posed as Spider-Woman in the final battle, was given Stark's position as director of S.H.I.E.L.D. and the Initiative. He donned a altered Iron Man armor with Captain America's color set an became known as the "Iron Patriot". He dissolved S.H.I.E.L.D. and created H.A.M.M.E.R. and his personal "Avengers", composed mainly of super-criminals who had served in the Thunderbolts posing as heroes. Since Osborn had transformed Venom into a more Spider-Man like look to join his Dark Avengers,[170] Peter had to reveal his secret identity to the New Avengers, in order to implicitly earn the team's trust. Upon doing so, Jessica Jones fled the place, as she had gone to high school with Peter and had a crush on him at the time.[171]

During a trip to the Macroverse, Spider-Man re-revealed to the Fantastic Four his identity, and after coming back, he discovered two months had passed in standard time. J.J. Jameson had become the new NY major, Aunt May and Jameson's father Jay were in a relationship, Harry had fallen to drink and Michele Gonzales had moved to his apartment. Then Spider-Man knew he must act against Norman Osborn and his Dark Reign.[172] With help of the F4's Unstable Molecules, Spider-Man infiltrated Osborn's Avengers as Venom and discovered how Osborn wanted to make his son a new hero called American Son and have him killed in action to increase his Avengers' popularity. After Spider-Man was captured by Norman Osborn, Harry confronted Osborn using the American Son Armor with the truth about his father's relationship with Lily Hollister (Harry's girlfriend). Spider-Man prevented Harry from killing Norman.[173]

Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 606 Textless
Peter with old flames

The Gauntlet and Grim Hunt
After the wedding of Aunt May and Jay, Jonah's parent, Spider-Man saved Jameson from Doctor Octopus with the help of the Human Torch. Around this time Mary Jane returned to New York, and Peter renewed his relationship with Black Cat. He later battled a man who wanted to kill Ben Reilly, and saw the return of Peter's living clone Kaine. Despite his problems, Spider-Man helped the original Jackpot start fighting crime[144] and overcame the corrupting control of Mister Negative's energy.[144]

The Kravinoff family started a vengeance scheme on Spider-Man, kidnapping Madame Web and Mattie Franklin, one of the Spider-Women.[174] In addition, Spider-Man managed to get a videotape of Osborn practicing illegal experiments to damage his reputation and leaked it to the public.[175]

Later, Spider-Man faced re-powered villains such as Electro, who destroyed the DB! Building[176]; Sandman, who became obsessed with taking care of his "daughter" Keemia[177]; Rhino, who left reformation to kill a new Rhino who murdered his wife[178]; Mysterio, who starts a gang war[179]; a new Vulture, who tries to kill Jameson[180]; and the Lizard, who evolved and "killed" his alter-ego and his son Billy[181]. Many of them where helped by Kraven's wife Sasha, who wanted revenge on Spider-Man, arranging most of these attacks so that Peter would be a potent sacrifice.[182]

The Kravinoffs killed Mattie Franklin to resurrect Grim Hunter, and finally hunted Spider-Man and killed him to revive Kraven. However it was revealed that the corpse was Kaine's, who had earlier knocked out Peter and switched places to save him, with the corrupted resurrection ritual thus leaving Kraven an apparent immortal who was nevertheless detached from the world around him. After a battle with the Kravinoff family, Madame Web died and Julia Carpenter took up her mantle. The surviving Kravinoffs left New York. Later, Kaine was resurrected from his grave and mutated into a more spider-like creature by the Jackal.[183]

Marko Djurdjevic - Age of Heroes Spider-man Covers
The world of Spider-Man.

Big Time
After Osborn's fall and the Registration Act's abolition following the Siege of Asgard, MJ invited Peter over so the two of them could gain closure over the marriage that didn't happen and the break-up.[184] Later, a massive war ensued between Doctor Octopus and Spider-Man to get Lily Hollister's and Norman Osborn's son, Spidey found that the child was actually Harry's[185], who later leaves town to raise him. Peter then finally starts a relationship with police officer Carlie Cooper.[186]

Spider-Man's heroic career rose up again, he joined the reassembled Avengers and also stayed with the New Avengers, who were outlaws no more. He learned that Michele was moving and he couldn't maintain his apartment anymore. However, Peter found a dream job, thanks to Jameson's wife Marla Madison, as a compensation for Jameson firing him, as a scientist at Horizon Labs where he had access to much technology and resources while also giving him freedom to come and go as he liked so long as he delivered good results. Spider-Man assisted the Avengers in defeating Doctor Octopus' army of macro-octobots. He then faced a new Hobgoblin and the Kingpin, but days later, he lamentably lost Marla in a fight between Alistair Smythe's Spider-Slayers.[187]

Future Foundation
Spidey and the rest of the FF.

Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 664 Textless
Spidey, Wraith and Anti-Venom vs. Mister Negative's henchman

After Johnny Storm (the Human Torch) died preventing an invasion from the Negative Zone, Peter joined the Fantastic Four, now as the Future Foundation as Johnny's last request to him and helped them to fight an interdimensional version of Reed Richards, and the Sinister Six, who managed to steal tech from the Baxter Building.

Their third mission was in the Caribbean, on Earth. There, Reed located the epicenter of the dimensional anomalies the Future Foundation had been fixing. As the team explored the island, they were attacked by zombie pirates. It was revealed it was all a fake created by the Sinister Six, with only Mysterio and Chameleon really present, the other four members were robots. Meanwhile, Doctor Octopus and the others infiltrated the Baxter Building, stealing technology for Doc Ock's further plans.[188]

Spider-Island
Peter Parker (Earth-616) from Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 670 001
Spiders, spiders everywhere.

After helping Anti-Venom (Eddie Brock) to reveal Mr. Negative's identity[189] (as well as learning that Aunt May was moving to Boston with Jay) Spider-Man found himself with a new problem: the Jackal returned and gave the majority of New Yorkers spider-powers.[190]

The Queen was revealed as the true mastermind: she wanted to turn the whole human race into spiders. Mr. Fantastic created a cure using the Anti-Venom Symbiote, and after battling Peter (under Jackal's influence), Peter's clone Kaine was accidentally cured from his mutations, turning him into a perfect clone.

While he and the Avengers battled the Spider-Queen in Central Park, Kaine killed her and Peter managed to get the cure to every citizen via Doc Ock's (mentally controlled) octobots. He met with Jay and May while they were leaving for Boston. Peter then ran into Kaine, who told Peter that he was leaving New York and would Peter's stealth suit, since Madame Web told Kaine he may need it. Also, because of revealing he had spider-powers during the Spider-Island event, Peter's psychic blind spot was weakened, letting Carlie know he was Spider-Man, which caused her to break up with him. Before giving a last cure sample to MJ, who briefly attempted to keep some spider-powers, Spidey met with Madame Web on the roof of Horizon Labs. She told him that he could de-power himself with the cure sample and someone else will step in to take his place. Peter refuses, saying that throwing his gift away would be the most irresponsible thing he's ever done. Madame Web warns that he is to suffer a loss. He then cures MJ and they look at the Empire State Building, lit in red and blue in his honor.[191]

Ends of the Earth
After fighting some old foes like the Vulture and his Vulture henchmen,[192] teaming-up with Daredevil and Black Cat,[193][194] and the now-alive Human Torch, Spider-Man faced the return of a menace.[195]

Before his death, Doctor Octopus wanted to be remembered as the man who saved Earth by stopping the Greenhouse Effect[196]. Equipped with a new suit, Spider-Man joined the Avengers to stop Octavius and his Sinister Six.[197]

Spider-Man&#039;s Anti-Sinister Six Suit from Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 682
Anti-Sinister Six Suit

After every Avenger was eventually subdued by Octavius[198], Silver Sable, who followed Spider-Man to his battle, saved him and Black Widow. Octavius asked for help from all nations to capture Spider-Man.[199] Octavius called on many villains to hunt down Spider-Man and his allies. To counter this, Spider-Man called on the heroes that were still on Earth to destroy the facilities of Octavius.[200] After most of the Sinister Six are defeated, Mysterio is convinced by Spider-Man to help him catch the Octopus in his base in Guatemala, but Octavius used the mind-controlled Avengers as his new Sinister Six.[201]

Spider-Man, Sable and Widow managed to defeat the Avengers, then he and Sable headed to Octavius' underwater base. They were faced by Rhino while the base started to flood, Octavius trapped Sable and left Spider-Man with two choices, to continue to fight him in order to save Sable from drowning, or allow Octavius to activate the lenses. After leaving Sable to her death at her request, Spidey managed to destroy Octavius's arms and equipment before taking his foe away to a doctor, thus finally saving the world.[202] Peter again was distraught over the death of Silver Sable, as he felt that he could have saved her.[203] Julia Carpenter, however, later told him that Sable was still alive.[204]

Spider-Men: Heroes of Two Worlds
While fighting Mysterio, Spider-Man was accidentally sent through a dimensional rift in the villain's possession into Earth-1610, the Ultimate Universe, where he encountered the Spider-Man of that world, Miles Morales, who had taken up the mantle of the late Peter Parker from his universe.[205] Once Miles and S.H.I.E.L.D. made sense of Spider-Man's appearance, they joined forces to fight Mysterio and the robotic avatar he used to operate on Earth-1610.[206]

Spider-Men Vol 1 5 Pichelli Variant Textless
Spider-Man and the Ultimates

Peter eventually couldn't resist to learn more about the life of his counterpart, and visited the home of the May Parker and Gwen Stacy from this reality.[207] May had a particularly tearful reunion with the image of what her nephew could've been, which was cut short when both Spider-Men were called by S.H.I.E.L.D. to deal with Mysterio. Once Mysterio's base was located,[208] the Spider-Men attacked him with assistance from the Ultimates and S.H.I.E.L.D.. Before Mysterio's portal closed permanently due to malfunctions, Peter gave Miles his blessing as the new Spider-Man, and returned to his reality.[209]

Superior Spider-Man
In the middle of a fight against the Hobgoblin while his spider-sense was overloaded, Spider-Man was unsuspectedly pinched by one of Doctor Octopus' Octobots programmed to swap consciousness between the two, causing Peter to become trapped in the dying body of his foe while Octavius claimed Peter's life for himself. In an attempt to take back his life with the little time he had left, Peter broke out of Octavius' cell in the Raft[210] leading to a final confrontation between the two in the Avengers Tower. Though Peter failed to reverse the change, he managed to establish a weak link with Otto's mind using an Octobot. In his final moments, Peter forced Otto to relive all of his memories. Having experienced in a flash all of Peter's trials and tribulations, Otto learned his lesson of power and responsibility, and swore to carry on with Peter's life with dignity as a superior Spider-Man.[211]

Otto Octavius (Earth-616) and Peter Parker (Earth-616) from Amazing Spider-Man Vol 1 700 0001
The apparent death of Peter in Doctor Octopus' body

Despite Peter's apparent demise, a portion of his being found itself alive inside Otto's subconsciousness.[212] Even though Otto attempted to rid of this remnant of Parker,[213] he decided to seek its help some time later after being overwhelmed by the returned Green Goblin and his Goblin Nation. Realizing that he failed in his role as the "superior" Spider-Man, having pushed his allies aside and lost his resources in the process, Otto willingly allowed Peter to reclaim his body in order to defeat Osborn once and for all and save Anna Maria Marconi, Otto's love.[214] In the aftermath of Otto's possession of his body, Peter began to amend the relationships damaged by Otto's arrogance and negligence, both as Peter Parker and Spider-Man. He additionally took up the reins of Parker Industries, a small company founded by Octavius after leaving Horizon Labs.[215]

Spider-Verse
While adjusting to his new status quo, especially his position as the CEO of his very own company,[47] Peter learned of the existence of Cindy Moon, a second person to have been bit by the same radioactive spider which granted Peter his powers. Spider-Man tracked her down and freed her from a bunker owned by the late Ezekiel Simms, where Cindy had spent over a decade in voluntary confinement shortly after getting her powers, in order to avoid drawing Morlun's attention. While Peter notified Cindy that Morlun was dead, he had in fact survived his last encounter against Spider-Man.[216]

Amazing Spider-Man Vol 3 13 Textless
Peter leading the Spider-Army

Not long after rescuing Cindy, who went on to adopt her own superheroic identity as Silk,[217] Spider-Man was approached by a contingent of spider-people from all over the Multiverse that banded together to fight the Inheritors, a group of psychic vampires and family of Morlun that had begun to hunt down the spider-totems of other realities.[218] During a mission to gather more recruits in 2099 A.D., the Spider-Army stumbled upon another party of spider-people led by Otto Octavius, or rather a version of him from the recent past who had been plucked out of time.[219]

The combined Spider-Army were forced to retreat to Earth-3145 after their safe zone in Earth-13 had been compromised by the Inheritors, namely Morlun, his brother Jennix, and his father and leader of the Inheritors, Solus.[129] With the help of Spider-Woman, who had previously infiltrated the Inheritor's base on Earth-001, the Spider-Army learned of a prophecy in which the Inheritors planned to sacrifice three key spiders: the Other, the Bride, and the Scion. These individuals were Kaine Parker, Cindy Moon, and Benjy Parker of Earth-982, respectively.[220]

With the help of even more recruits from other realities and even a deviant Inheritor named Karn, the Spider-Army, including a version of Gwen Stacy with spider-powers known as "Spider-Gwen", launched one final attack on the Inheritors' home of Earth-001. The ritual was stopped, and the Inheritors were exiled with no means to return home to the radioactive wasteland that had become the world of Earth-3145.[221] With the Inheritors neutralized, most of the spider-totems were sent home. Spider-Man and a few others stayed on Earth-001 for a little while longer to defeat the time-displaced Octavius, who had gone rogue after learning that Parker would eventually regain control of his body. Octavius was defeated and returned to the time he had come from, losing memory of the recent events in the process. With no more problems to confront, Spider-Man and the rest of the spiders were sent back home.[222]

Rise and Fall of Parker Industries
Unbeknownst to anyone, Otto Octavius had created a digital back-up of his own mind which ended up inhabiting the metallic body of Parker Industries' robotic assistant, the Living Brain.[223] Over the course of the following months, Octavius routinely hacked into the systems of the market share to manipulate its numbers in the favor of Parker Industries.[224] As a consequence of this, the company managed to expand into a global conglomerate with numerous bases in different countries, with the company's trademark invention being a mobile device called the Webware. This change in Peter's life impacted his super heroic alter ego as well. Spider-Man officially became the mascot of Parker Industries under the guise of being Peter's bodyguard.[225]

Amazing Spider-Man Vol 4 1 Textless
Spidey's gone global.

One of Peter's biggest challenges during his tenure as a billionaire C.E.O was the emergence of a mysterious biotech company, operating out of the Transamerica Pyramid, called New U. Peter discovered it was a front for the operations of the Jackal, who claimed to have found a way to bring people back from the dead using cloning technology. In an attempt to persuade Peter to put Parker Industries' resources to help his plan, the Jackal resurrected numerous of his late friends and foes, including Gwen Stacy.[226] In a turn of events, the Jackal was revealed to be Ben Reilly,[227] who had been brought to life by the original Jackal before taking his place.[228] The Jackal's plan eventually fell apart following the triggering of cellular decay in the clones created by New U, which led to the release of the Carrion Virus worldwide.[229] The crisis was adverted when Spider-Man had his Webwares transmit an audio frequency in a global scale which halted the cellular degeneration, but not before most of the clones died.[230] The Jackal, being a clone himself, was left for dead, though he secretly escaped and returned to the mantle of the Scarlet Spider.[231][232]

Afterwards, Peter teamed-up again with Teresa Durand, a CIA agent with whom Peter had already joined forces in a mission at least a year ago during which she was seemingly brainwashed by the Kingpin and Mentallo to believe she was Peter's long-lost sister.[5] Teresa sought Peter's help when on the run from a government organization called the Gray Blade.[233] Hydra's short-lived take-over of the United States of America temporarily put a halt to Peter and Teresa's escapades. Numerous headquarters of Parker Industries around the globe were then targeted by the forces of the terrorist organization,[224] namely a unit led by one of Hydra's latest additions, the duplicate of Doctor Octopus, who had gained a physical body through the Jackal's cloning technology.[234] In a last-ditch effort to prevent the resources of Parker Industries from falling in the hands of Octavius and Hydra, Parker had his employees obliterate all systems of the company, running Parker Industries into the ground.[235]

Conan the Barbarian Vol 3 4 Spider-Man Villains Variant Textless
Rise of the Red Goblin

Despite having his civilian reputation smeared due to his company's collapse, Peter quickly got back on his feet. After beginning a short-lived relationship with Parker Industries' former S.H.I.E.L.D. liaison Mockingbird, Peter was hired by Robbie Robertson as the editor for the Daily Bugle's science section.[236] Before Peter recovered himself however, his adventure with Teresa continued, who discovered that she was in fact Mary and Richard Parker's daughter,[237] and shared this information with Peter.[238]

Not long after Peter had decided to reveal his secret identity to Jameson,[239] Jonah was kidnapped by Norman Osborn, and accidentally let it slip that Peter was Spider-Man.[240] In addition to having regained his powers, Osborn had bonded with the Carnage Symbiote, giving birth to the Red Goblin.[241] Peter failed to take down Osborn despite the help from his allies,[242] and was overpowered in battle even after Eddie Brock had lent him his symbiote. Peter only managed to defeat Osborn in a fight after tricking him into rejecting the symbiote, having claimed that any credit for his defeat would go to the Carnage symbiote and not Osborn himself. Unfortunately, the process of defeating Osborn cost the life of Spider-Man's biggest fan, Flash Thompson, who had recently become the superhero Agent Anti-Venom.[243]

Back to Basics
Amazing Spider-Man Vol 5 3 Textless
Peter and his duplicate.

Following Osborn's latest defeat, Peter's life was plagued with problems on both sides. As Spider-Man, now-Mayor Wilson Fisk decided to be publicly accepting of him while condemning all other vigilantes, in order to isolate him from his superhero peers. As Peter Parker, his academic credentials were revoked after being accused of plagiarizing his doctoral dissertion from Octavius (and unable to defend himself without revealing his secret identity), resulting in his firing from the Daily Bugle. On the other hand, Peter became romantically involved again with Mary Jane, and was given an opportunity to re-apply for his doctoral thesis on the recommendation of Dr. Connors.[244] For a brief time, Peter Parker and Spider-Man were split into separate beings due to an accident involving the reverse-engineered Isotope Genome Accelerator. However, the separation split Peter down the middle, so both individuals didn't share Peter's sense of responsibility, resulting in a reckless and vain Spider-Man.[245] Peter eventually managed to reverse the process, and merge his two halves back together before the side-effects could worsen and result in their death.[246]

Spider-Geddon
After an exhausting day apprehending robbers, Peter was preparing to head home, when he was shocked by the abrupt reappearance of Morlun, who, along with his fellow Inheritors, made their way to Earth-616 following the blunder of Otto Octavius.[247] Peter was saved by the arrival of Miles Morales. After the Spider-Men regrouped at Central Park Zoo, Peter told Miles he could take on Morlun alone.[248] Carrying out his plan of tranquilizing Morlun with the equipment available, he eventually trapped Morlun in a cage, while NYPD soldiers opened fire with tranquilizer guns, sedating the Inheritor. Peter, after making his way back to his apartment, had barely touched his bed when Spider-Gwen teleported in and informed him of the trouble the Spider-Army was having with the other Inheritors. Without hesitation, Peter followed her.[249] After having recruited enough Spider-People, they arrived at the Transamerica Pyramid for the final battle. In there, Peter found Octavius and Ben Reilly, who convinced him they were both on the side of good now. After learning his plan, Peter told the Spider-People to follow Octavius' lead, which meant Miles Morales, now with the power of the Enigma Force, killing Solus. After defeating the other Inheritors, the Spider-People discovered that their hunger was put in them by their father, and that it could be reversed. They did it by creating new clone baby bodies of them, with no memory of their past life. Peter then returned home[250] but Morlun's final fate remains unknown.
Personality
Quote1 Whether a law is right or wrong, moral or immoral, is an idea, a personal philosophy... but it always seems that fights over ideas skip over the barrier into the real world and become battles of real violence.  Quote2
--Spider-Man (Peter Parker)[src]
Spider-Man is commonly seen as a brave and righteous hero with an indomitable sense of justice and responsibility. Shaken by his uncle's tragic death, Spider-Man's vow of responsibility has led him to a path of heroism and humanitarian service. There are times when Spider-Man's sense of responsibility can be almost overbearing; this was evidently noted by Luke Cage when he felt embarrassed about Electro causing the Raft breakout, despite the fact he had nothing to do with it.[251] This combined with his strong moral compass in the face of adversity and sharp wit make him one of the most iconic and enduring heroes in the Marvel Universe.

One of Spider-Man's most prominent traits is his sense of humor. He at times is seen as the class clown in every group he is in. Even in the face of certain death, Spider-Man invariably cracks a joke, to the annoyance of both friends and foes. His reasons for this vary: either he wants to relieve the stress of a situation, or simply because he wants to hide how scared he really is during a crisis. Also, he does this to get on the nerves of his opponents, since he knows that if they are angry, that they would normally lose themselves and be vulnerable to a superior skilled opponent. It is generally agreed, however, that whenever a life is in danger, he will stop telling jokes and take the current situation with the utmost seriousness.[252]

Behind this humorous facade; however, is a wounded soul that has gone through much suffering. While Spider-Man is in combat, occasionally another person dies, leaving him depressed for having failed in his responsibility. Guilt over the loss of his Uncle Ben continues to be the primary motivating factor in his super-heroics and his life in general. Peter is quick to assume guilt and responsibility for anything bad that happens in his presence or that can, in some way, relate back to him. For instance, he assumed responsibility for Electro's mass breakout at the Raft[253] and Norman Osborn's Initiative[254] because they were "his" villains. Death in particular is difficult for Peter to reconcile with, leading him to make dramatic and unrealistic proclamations, such as his "Nobody dies!" credo after Marla Madison's passing.[255]

Spider-Man is also traditionally a loner. Due to his individualistic style, having been a social outcast in his youth, Spider-Man finds it hard to work in teams. However, this has gradually lessened over the years, to the point Spider-Man has worked actively with the Avengers.[256]

Peter is also a strong willed hero, whatever obstacles that comes his way, if it's relationships, being misunderstood, or someone dying in his watch, he always gets back up. His indomitable will and don't give up attitude usually pushed him to do amazing feats like supporting the weight of a jet[257] and beating up Firelord.[258] Despite being a hero, Spider-Man is nerdy, awkward, and shy. These traits have faded through the years as Parker grew up and gained confidence, but elements of the awkward teenage nerd still remain in his personality.[259]

Spider-Man's righteousness complimented Daredevil's maturity as a crime-fighter during the The Death of Jean DeWolff, leading to an enduring friendship.[260] Peter also made close ties with the Fantastic Four at the very start of his career, which stands greater than ever today, like a family rendering aid to each other unconditionally.[261] He is also quite close to the X-Men, able to sympathize with the public scorn that mutants often face.[262] More recently Spider-Man has bonded with the New Avengers of whom he is a founding member, trusting them so much that he would reveal his identity to each member.[171] Of the two previously mentioned teams, Spidey is closest to the Human Torch and Wolverine, playing pranks on one another or seeking solace respectively.[161][263]

Reputation
Quote1 Jonah only goes after me because he loves this city. He genuinely believes Spider-Man is a menace to society. Always has. Look, I'm not saying you have to like everybody you meet. Or that you can't get mad at people when they screw up. Just that it might be worth a minute to try and see things from the other guy's side. Turns out most people--even the grumpy ones who yell--probably don't deserve blunt force trauma on the head.  Quote2
--Spider-Man (Peter Parker)[src]
Seen by some as the heart of New York, Peter has gained quite a reputation with not only the superhero community, but villains and civilians as well: his Aunt May searched the Internet and found that Spider-Man had saved roughly 10,000 lives directly, excluding all of his team-ups with other heroes and all the bombs or devices he's deactivated.[264] In the Bar with No Name, the villains present initially felt discouraged to bet money against the Wall-Crawler as he fought Overdrive since "He always beats the new guys."[265]

When the Hood began his criminal career and was almost killed by the Constrictor, the Constrictor noted how new he was to villainy and that he "didn't even get to fight Spider-Man."[266] Despite all the grudges Spider-Man has accumulated, he has made peace with some former enemies such as the Punisher (now an uneasy ally), Venom, Molten Man, Rocket Racer, Kaine (now known as Scarlet Spider), and even checked up on the less than lethal Frog Man after his incarceration ended to make sure things were fine.[267]

In spite of his many heroics, Spider-Man is infamous for numerous smear campaigns against him, especially at the hands of the Daily Bugle. The reason of this bad-mouthing upon him is because of the Bugle's manager and main publisher, John Jonah Jameson had strong distrust towards the wall crawler due to being a costumed vigilante with no affiliation to law and to take the spotlight of "true" heroes like public servants.

It was also revealed that Spider-Man is disliked by a good deal of police in New York because, even though he comes to turn in captured super villains, the police mistrusts him due to his vigilantism, and they are also embarrassed over their dependency on him to arrest the threats they couldn't handle. However, it is also shown that some of the NYPD does support him, such as his good friends, Jean DeWolfe and George Stacy, and in later years, Lieutenant William Lamont.

In some cops, this dislike grew into hatred and they had tried to incriminate the Wall-Crawler by putting some of his trackers on recent corpses to turn public opinion against him. However, Vin Gonzales (one of the involved cops) revealed the scheme for a lighter sentence and they earned the anger of general public that the police ironically tried to frame Spider-Man with the crime.

During a fight with Cable, Cable noted that Spider-Man is seen in the future as the greatest hero of them all.[268] Also, after Spider-Man helped the villain Loki to save his daughter from Morwen, one earned the other grudging but genuine respect.[269]

When Doctor Octopus tried to become a better Spider-Man than Parker after switching bodies,[211] he failed to stop the Green Goblin's take over of Manhattan, and admitted that Parker was the actual "Superior Spider-Man."[24]

Relationships
Peter's love interests include Felicia Hardy (Black Cat), Gwen Stacy, Mary Jane Watson, Betty Brant, Carlie Cooper, Michele Gonzales, Liz Allan, Debra Whitman, Cissy Ironwood, Sara Bailey, Silver Sablinova (Silver Sable), Carol Danvers (Ms. Marvel, Captain Marvel), Julia Carpenter (Spider-Woman, Arachne, Madame Web), Cindy Moon (Silk), Lian Tang and most recently Bobbi Morse (Mockingbird). However, Mary Jane Watson has been the only woman he has married before Mephisto altered reality.

Religious Views
Peter Parker has expressed Protestant Christian beliefs in the past.[270] This may in part be attributed to his Aunt May, who has always been a devout Protestant Christian.[271][272] He was since shown to hold firm atheist beliefs after renouncing his religion at an unknown time;[273] however, things culminated in the appearance of the apparition of his Uncle Ben from the afterlife, and subsequently the Santerians urged Peter to resolve his crisis of faith, the first step of which was a visit to the confessional at Saint Patrick's Cathedral.

