The Hulk- Bruce Banner
Early Years
Bruce Banner (Earth-616), Brian Banner (Earth-616), and Rebecca Banner (Earth-616) from Incredible Hulk Vol 1 603 001
Bruce's mother killed by his father in blind fury

Robert Bruce Banner is the son of Dr. Brian Banner, an atomic physicist, and his wife Rebecca. Although Rebecca deeply loved Bruce, who returned her affection, Brian hated their child. Brian never wanted children because of what happened to him and his sisters Susan and Elaine Banner. An alcoholic, and a very, very angry man, Brian was driven by an insane jealousy of Bruce for being an object of Rebecca's love. Further, Brian believed that his radiation work had altered his DNA and given him a mutant son.[2] These factors led to Brian abusing Bruce physically. One of the people who helped Bruce cope with Brian's tantrums was his maternal cousin Jennifer Walters, with whom Bruce used to spend summers in the public library reading for hours, losing themselves to books.[29]

Bruce's life reached a turning point when Brian murdered Rebecca, and was placed in a mental hospital after being removed from his father's negative influence. After that, Bruce was raised by his aunt and father's sister, Susan Banner, who understood his great pain and rage over his childhood sufferings. Susan raised Bruce with love and care, as if he were her own child. Susan never wanted to deal with her brother after what he had done to Bruce and Rebecca. Bruce, grew up as a highly withdrawn, intellectually gifted youth, in fact, a child prodigy.[30]

Education
Bruce Banner (Earth-616) and Anthony Stark (Earth-616) from Indestructible Hulk Annual Vol 1 1 001
Tony and Bruce at Oxford University

After graduating from Science High School, Bruce studied nuclear physics in Navapo, New Mexico, at Desert State University as the star student of Professor Herbert Josiah Weller.[31] He also studied for a time at Harvard University.[citation needed] He later transferred to Pennsylvania State University where he briefly worked with Canadian student Walter Langkowski finding a similar interest in gamma radiation.[32][33] He also worked with Peter Corbeau, and Raoul Stoddard. It was during his time at Penn State that Banner found inspiration from noted scientist Albert Einstein and like the famous scientist, bought a wardrobe consisting entirely of purple suits.[34]

As a young student, Bruce first met another student with a brilliant mind; Tony Stark. Ever since, they both attended Dr. Derenik Zadian's "Forward Thought Conference" at Oxford University. This would lead to a life-long scientific rivalry between the two. They also became best friends. They eventually teamed up and joined the Avengers.[35]

Bruce obtained his doctorate in nuclear physics at Caltech, alongside Philip Sterns, who later became Madman.[34]

Physicist
Eventually, as an adult and a genius in nuclear physics, Banner wished to pursue philanthropic brands of science, but couldn't receive any financial funding for his projects,[35] and thus in lack of other options, went to work at a United States Defense Department nuclear research facility at Desert Base, New Mexico. There Banner met General Thaddeus E. "Thunderbolt" Ross, the Air Force officer in command of the base, and his daughter Betty Ross. Banner and Betty eventually fell in love with each other. Banner designed and oversaw construction of the "Gamma Bomb" or "G-bomb," a nuclear weapon possessing a high gamma radiation output.[36]

The Hulk
Bruce Banner (Earth-616) from Incredible Hulk Vol 1 1 002
Banner was present in the instrumentation bunker at the test site for the first underground test detonation of the Gamma Bomb. Observing that a civilian had breached security and entered the restricted test area, Banner told his colleague Igor Starsky to delay the countdown while he tried to escort the civilian to safety. Starsky, secretly a Soviet agent, did nothing, confident that Banner would die in the explosion, bringing the project to a halt. Reaching the civilian, a teenager named Rick Jones, Banner threw him into a protective trench.[36]

Before Banner could get himself to safety, the Gamma Bomb detonated, and intense waves of radiation reached the surface. Banner was irradiated with highly charged radioactive particles. Due to an unknown genetic factor in his body, Banner was not killed by the radiation, which instead caused him to frequently transform into the vastly powerful, green-skinned, humanoid monster whom General Ross named "the Hulk."[36]

At first Banner changed into the Hulk at sunset and reverted to human form at dawn. However, Banner's body eventually changed so that his transformations into the Hulk were triggered by the release of adrenaline when he became intensely excited or angry, no matter what time of day or night it was.

Usually the Hulk possessed little of Banner's memory and intelligence and was easily enraged. While the military attempted to contain the Hulk, he thwarted their every attempt, with Rick Jones, feeling responsible for Banner becoming the Hulk, trying to help keep him away from the military. The Hulk ultimately thwarted an attempt to destroy America by the Gargoyle, another being mutated by gamma radiation. The Hulk changed back into Banner and help cure the Gargoyle, who helped Banner escape back to the U.S., where, with the help of Rick Jones, he maintained his identity as the Hulk a secret and attempted to keep the Hulk contained at night.[36]

Early Adventures
When Bruce next turned into the Hulk, his skin was green, a skin tone that remained the most constant for the Hulk. Banner became a target of the so-called Toad Men, who sought to invade Earth. Although at first their attempts to exploit Banner's intelligence made him appear to be a traitor to his country, Banner was able to use his might as the Hulk to thwart the Toad Men's invasion and thereby clear his name.[37]

In an effort to control his transformations, Banner began using a Gamma Ray Projector to force transformations into the Hulk and Banner vice-versa; however his Hulk persona was reluctant to transform back into Banner.[37] After the Hulk was shot into space and passing through a radiation storm Rick Jones briefly found himself able to control him. They worked together to stop the Circus of Crime. Jones' control over the Hulk faded away. The Hulk's transformations were not limited to nightfall after this adventure.[38]

Fantastic Four Vol 1 25 Vintage
The Hulk vs. the Thing!

The Hulk next foiled a hoax perpetrated by the Russian agent Boris Monguski (Mongu) aimed at trying to learn the secrets of the Hulk's strength,[39] saved Betty from the underground ruler Tyrannus, and battled the Chinese General Fang.[40] When Gamma Base was the subject to sabotage, the Hulk was blamed and the Fantastic Four were called in to deal with him. This led to the first of many clashes between the Hulk and the Fantastic Four's Thing. In the aftermath, the scientist Karl Kort was ultimately held responsible.[41] Shortly thereafter, the Hulk prevented Metal Master from invading Earth.[42]

The Sentry
The Sentry met the Hulk and found that somehow his powers soothed the Hulk's raging temper. They were partners for a time, battling the Sentry's eternal enemy, the Void. Eventually Sentry had to erase his existence from the minds of the world, and the Hulk forgot about his one-time partnership with the Sentry for many years.[43]

Sentry Hulk Vol 1 1
The Avengers
The Hulk became a pawn of Loki, who tricked the Hulk into battling his half-brother, Thor. This plot was foiled, leading to the Hulk, Thor, Iron Man, Ant-Man, and the Wasp joining forces to form the Avengers and defeat Loki.[17] The Hulk was a founding member of the group and together they clashed with Doctor Doom.[44] The group's mistrust in him became apparent when they were manipulated by the Space Phantom, prompting the Hulk to quit.[45] The Avengers began hunting down their unpredictable former ally. the Hulk found an ally in the Sub-Mariner, and clashed with the heroes, Thor in particular,[46] but the Hulk was defeated and disappeared in the water.[47]

The Hulk soon resurfaced in New York City seeking revenge against the Avengers, clashing with them as well as the Fantastic Four, leading to a rematch with the Thing. The battle ended with Hulk being swept away in the New York harbor.[48] The Hulk resurfaced back in New Mexico, where he was tricked by the Avengers into aiding them in preventing the Lava Men's attempt to eradicate human life on Earth's surface.[49]

While hiding out in a cave near Hollywood, the Hulk was disturbed when the Green Goblin's plot to use the Enforcers to kill Spider-Man encroached into his hiding spot, leading to a brief clash between the Hulk and Spider-Man before the Hulk fled the scene.[50] Later, the Hulk was manipulated into battling his former Avengers comrades, Giant-Man and the Wasp, by their enemy, the Human Top.[51]

Back at Gamma Base
Banner continued his stint as a scientist at Gamma Base. Meanwhile, General Ross suspected Banner of being a spy and having some sort of connection with the Hulk. The base soon became the target of the Chameleon who had been hired to steal a new experimental robot tank designed by Banner.[52] Banner's attempt to stop the spy was complicated by the arrival of Lt. Glenn Talbot, who shared General Ross' suspicions, at Gamma Base.[53] When the military decided to move Banner and his tank to another base, the Chameleon's employer, the Leader, deployed his Humanoid to steal it. The Hulk battled the Humanoid and prevented it from stealing the device, but Banner himself was arrested by the military under suspicion of having something to do with this attempted theft.[54] Banner remained a prisoner until Rick Jones revealed Banner's double identity to the President of the U.S., earning him a pardon.[55]

Banner went to Astra Island with his new experimental Absorbatron device. The island was attacked by Leader's Humanoids, but Hulk defeated them.[55] The battle ended with Banner being captured by Communist agents. Banner refused to work for the Communists and the Hulk freed himself and the other captured scientists.[56] Thanks to the sacrifice of one of these scientists, the Hulk was able to fight his way out of Russia and ended up in Mongolia.[57] There Banner was picked up by thief Kanga Kahn, who attempted to hold Banner for ransom for safe return to America. Glenn Talbot, believing him to be a traitor, was sent to retrieve Banner,[58] but the Hulk left Talbot behind and returned to the U.S., where Banner was arrested.

Banner was again pardoned by the President and was allowed to return to Astra Island for another test.[59] The Leader's Humanoids attacked again, and the Hulk and the Absorbatron were once again captured.[60] Banner used one of the Leader's devices to bring the army to the site. By the time they arrived, Hulk had sent the Leader fleeing. The military drove the Hulk back, only to find a seemingly dead Banner when they searched the site of the battle.[61][62]

Rick Jones stole Banner's body and attempted to revive him in his lab. Another bombardment with the Gamma Ray Projector triggered a transformation into the Hulk, but for the first time ever, Banner's mind possessed the Hulk. This came at a cost: if the Hulk ever reverted to Banner, he would die due to a shrapnel fragment lodged in his brain. The Leader showed the power of the stolen Absorbatron to potential buyers by sending a gigantic Humanoid to attack Gamma Base.[63] The Hulk and Rick Jones were knocked away from the battle when General Ross fired his new "Sunday Punch" missile destroying the giant Humanoid. When the Hulk and Rick sought refuge in one of Banner's secret labs the military followed them. Banner sent Rick out to hold up the military during an air strike. The Leader teleported the Hulk away, seeking to form an alliance with him. The military assumed that their assault had atomized the Hulk.[64]

The Hulk refused to ally himself with the Leader. Realizing something was wrong, the Leader bombarded him with more gamma radiation and removed the shrapnel from his brain. He then sent the Hulk to the Watcher's home planet in order to steal the Ultimate Machine.[65] There the Hulk clashed with the Amphibion, an alien who also sought the Ultimate Machine; after the Hulk had bested the Amphibion in combat, he was returned to Earth. The Leader took the Ultimate Machine from the Hulk and attempted to use the device. The Leader's plan backfired, as the machine seemingly killed him.[66]

Tales to Astonish Vol 1 73
Hulk vs. Amphibion

Learning that Rick Jones was a prisoner of the military for refusing to reveal the Hulk's true identity, the Hulk attempted to seek a Presidential pardon for his friend. In Washington, D.C., he was ironically attacked by the last weapon Banner had invented for the military: the T-Ray.[67] The T-Ray transported the Hulk to the distant future of Earth-6676, a post-apocalyptic world ruled by King Arrkam. There, the Hulk battled his enforcer, the Executioner. Ultimately, the effects of the T-Ray wore off and the Hulk was returned to his native Earth-616.[67]

Outed As the Hulk
Rick Jones, believing Banner dead, revealed the Hulk's true identity to General Ross and Glenn Talbot.[68] Learning that the Hulk was alive and well, Talbot hounded the Hulk again with Banner's replacement, Konrad Zaxon. This prompted Rick to also tell Betty about Banner's double identity.[69] Ultimately, the Hulk killed Zaxon for trying to use the Hulk as a battery for weapons he hoped to use to take over the Earth. The military chased after the Hulk, not knowing of Zaxon's true plans.

The Hulk, fleeing from Captain America, had a brief clash with Hercules.[70] Then, the Hulk was used as a pawn by Tyrannus who was then at war with another underground dweller, the Mole Man, over the Fountain of Youth.[71][72] Later, the Hulk was caught in the middle of the Secret Empire agent Boomerang's attempt to steal the new Orion missile, taking Betty as his prisoner. The Hulk managed to defeat Boomerang and then repeatedly battered him to an unrecognizable stoop saving Betty.[73] The Hulk sought out the Avengers in New York, only to be hounded by the authorities.[74] While in New York, the Hulk was hounded by Spider-Man who sought to capture him in an attempt to earn membership in the Avengers, a mission in which he would fail due to his sympathy for the Hulk.[75]

Number One of the Empire attempted to use the Sub-Mariner to destroy the Hulk; however, this plot failed and Number One accidentally blew himself up. A spy for the Empire sent the Orion Missile off its testing course to impact with New York City.[76] Banner redirected the missile to explode harmlessly in the ocean.[77] Getting into a battle with the Leader's Hulk-Killer android, the Hulk eventually short circuited the Hulk-Killer, although Rick Jones was injured in the fight.[78] For his part in stopping the Orion Missile from destroying New York, the Hulk was hailed as a hero and received a full Presidential pardon; however, the media frenzy frightened the Hulk off. The Hulk was attacked by Boomerang, seeking a rematch, seemingly ending in Boomerang's death.[79]

Incredible Hulk Vol 1 103
A Menace Once More
The Stranger attempted to use the Hulk to wipe out most of humanity hoping that the survivors would build a better world before leaving for the stars.[80] Not wishing to be a menace, Banner attempted to kill himself with a powerful burst of gamma radiation. Banner was arrested by Glenn Talbot and locked up, leaving the spy Emil Blonsky to be mutated into the Abomination. The Hulk battled the Abomination, whom the Stranger found more useful to his goals.[81]

The Hulk attempted to force the Silver Surfer to take him into space.[82] The Hulk was next captured by hunters in the employ of the High Evolutionary. The High Evolutionary attempted to advance Banner's evolution by ten million years to use him to keep his invading New Men at bay.[83]

The Hulk was then tricked into helping the Lords of the Living Lightning capture Gamma Base. The Hulk turned against them for threatening Betty and put an end to their organization. In the aftermath the Hulk was once again believed to be dead.[84] The Hulk fell under the control of the Puppet Master who had him attack Rick, estranging him and the Hulk for a time, and then sent him after the Sub-Mariner. Coincidentally, this was at a time after Namor had been exiled from Atlantis and was seeking an alliance with the Hulk. The clash between the two ended in a giant tsunami that ruined the Puppet Master's base and reverted the Hulk to Bruce Banner. Not recognizing the Hulk in his human form, the Sub-Mariner returned to the sea.[85]

Loki once again attempted to use the Hulk as his pawn, transporting him to Asgard, leading to a clash with the Warriors Three, the Executioner, and an army of Trolls. Odin banished the Hulk into the deep reaches of space[86] where he clashed with the Space Parasite.[87]

Hunted by Everyone
The Hulk was captured by the US military, now fully backed by his longtime ally, Rick Jones. Banner was targeted by the newly restored Rhino, who was seemingly killed in a fuel truck explosion.[88] Briefly back in human form, Banner was shot by crooks, but he transformed back into the Hulk when being chased by police. The Hulk next battled the Missing Link, an irradiated prehistoric man sent to attack America by Chinese communists. The Link was seemingly destroyed in an explosion when it reached critical mass despite interference from Glenn Talbot, Nick Fury and his Russian counterpart Yuri Brevlov.[89][90] During this battle, Rick Jones was injured by the Hulk and then taken in by Captain America to become the new Bucky.[91]

Attracting the attention of the Mandarin, the Hulk was tested by the villain who hoped to work with him, but the Hulk rejected the offer,[92] trashed the Mandarin's castle, and escaped.[93] The Hulk accidentally freed the evil Inhumans led by Maximus, who attempted to overthrow Black Bolt's rule of Attilan. The Hulk wanted nothing to do with their rebellion and easily trounced them. Black Bolt offered the Hulk a place with the Inhumans, but after realizing that the other Inhumans feared him, the Hulk left the hidden land.[94]

Hulk vs. Fin Fang Foom Vol 1 1
After a battle against Fin Fang Foom,[95] the Hulk was dogged by the Chinese military. The Hulk hitched a ride on an experimental rocket which crashed in the Antarctic. Banner awoke in the Savage Land and got captured by the Swamp Men who attempted to sacrifice him until he was rescued by Ka-Zar.[96] Hulk clashed with the alien robot Umbu the Unliving and destroyed it with Ka-Zar's help and saved the Earth. Banner suffered from exposure to Umbu's radiation.[97] Having detected the destruction of Umbu, the Galaxy Master captured the dying Banner and revived him. The Hulk battled the Sagittarians on a distant world[98] and the seemingly destroyed the Galaxy Master, freeing its slaves.[99]

Many (Un)Happy Returns
The Mandarin sent the Sandman against the Hulk, resulting in the Sandman being fused into glass. The Hulk was once again captured by General Ross.[100] With the Hulk in captivity, the Leader returned alive and well and offered his services to neutralize the threat of the Hulk once and for all. To this end he trapped the Hulk in a Plasticine prison.[101] Betty freed the Hulk, but by then it was too late to stop the Leader from attempting to use the base's nuclear weapons to jump start World War III.[102] Although Bruce Banner stopped most of the missiles, the Leader launched a second one, prompting Banner to become the Hulk again to stop it.[103]

Rescued and restored to health by Lady Dorma, a rival for Namor's affections. The Sub-Mariner defeated the Hulk in underwater combat when Mistress Fara convinced the Sub-Mariner that Dorma was romancing another man.[104] Washing up on the shores of Costa Salvador, Bruce Banner found that the island had been taken over by Maximus and his evil Inhumans. The Hulk clashed with them, and Maximus retreated.[105] Fleeing to Florida, the Hulk ended up battling the Glob, a creature the Hulk would destroy before realizing it was much like him.[106]

Incredible Hulk Vol 1 123
No Happiness for Bruce Banner
Reed Richards of the Fantastic Four developed a cure for Banner's condition that worked to a degree. Banner gained the ability to transform into the Hulk at will while maintaining his intelligence. Vowing to never become the Hulk again, Banner proposed to Betty, who accepted.[107] Sadly, the Leader recruited the Rhino and fired a gamma ray during Bruce and Betty's wedding, again causing Banner to turn into the Hulk. The Hulk clashed with the Rhino and the Leader, hospitalizing General Ross and destroying his home. The Hulk escaped, and Glenn Talbot vowed to Betty that he would destroy the Hulk.[108]

Returning to the desert, the Hulk was sought out by the X-Men who were seeking one of Banner's inventions that could heal their injured leader, Professor X. Although they briefly clashed, Banner returned long enough to give the X-Men what they needed to save their leader.[109]

Banner agreed to work with Glenn Talbot to try and stop a radioactive comet threatening Earth. This meteor turned out to be the Absorbing Man, whom the Hulk defeated.[110] Banner's body was captured by a cult that sought to release their demonic masters, the Undying Ones. The Hulk was sent into the realm of the Night-Crawler along with Barbara Norris. Doctor Strange came to the Hulk's aid to stop the Undying Ones. Barbara Norris sacrificed herself so that the two heroes could escape.[111]

The Hulk once again became a pawn in the ongoing war between Tyrannus and the Mole Man. This time Tyrannus attempted to win the Hulk's cooperation by making him befriend his robot Mogol. When the Hulk learned that the creature was really a robot, he considered it a betrayal and destroyed him, and left Tyrannus' realm.[112] Trying to get the surface, the Hulk nearly caused a massive earthquake by effecting fault lines on the west coast, leading to a clash with his old team, the Avengers.[113] The Hulk was targeted by the Leader who revived the Glob and sent him after the Hulk in a plot that ultimately ended in failure.[114]

Rick Jones sought out his old friend to find a way to separate himself from the Kree soldier Captain Marvel, but a student protest set Banner off, leading to a clash with Captain Marvel.[115] Another former colleague, Dr. Raoul Stoddard, succeeded in splitting the Hulk from Banner, sending the Hulk on a rampage to destroy Banner.[116] The Hulk fled the military and hid out in the slums of Los Angeles and befriended the young Jim Wilson while Banner, the military and Iron Man attempted to track down the Hulk in order to re-merge Banner and the Hulk.[117] After again merging the Hulk with Banner, the military asked Jim Wilson to stay with them to keep the Hulk under control. Wilson was also targeted by the terrorist organization Hydra who also sought to control the Hulk. This plot ended in failure; however, Jim was seriously injured. Betty Ross suffered a nervous breakdown from the stress of dealing with Banner's double life as the Hulk.[118]

Have Hulk, Will Travel
The Hulk ended up in the nation of Morvania and helped the resistance remove its dictator, V?clav Draxon.[119] Trapped in the future and seeking revenge against the Avengers, Kang the Conqueror sent the Hulk back in time to World War I to kill the Phantom Eagle. The Hulk foiled this plot and successfully returned to his own time.[120]

The Hulk and the Abomination were enslaved by Xeron and traveled the stars to hunt down and kill the creature known as Klaatu.[121] Although the Abomination attempted to kill the Banner/Hulk, the crew's captain Cybor seemingly slayed Klaatu. The Hulk and the Abomination clashed, sending them crashing back to Earth.[122] The Hulk clashed with the Sandman, who tried to force a blood transfusion with Betty to stop himself from turning into glass. The defeated Sandman lost in a whirlpool, while Betty was transformed into glass as a result of the transfusion.[123]

Incredible Hulk Vol 1 134
In the South American nation of San Diablo, the Hulk and the Silver Surfer were recruited by the Sub-Mariner into a group called the Titans Three to destroy a weather control device that threatened Earth.[124] This led to a clash with the Avengers until the Sub-Mariner's scientist Ikthon could repair a flaw in the device. Confused, the Hulk fled the scene.[125]

The Leader sought to exert the Hulk to the point where the monster would die of a heart attack. He created psycho projections and led him towards the hospital where Betty Ross was, threatening to shatter Betty's fragile glass form. Thanks to interference from Jim Wilson, the Leader's plot was foiled.[126]

The Hulk was captured by the military with aid from Mister Fantastic and Charles Xavier; however, he was teleported away by the insectoid Psyklop. Psyklop sought to shrink the Hulk down in size and use him as a power source to bring his masters, the Dark Gods, to Earth. The Avengers interrupted, causing the Hulk to shrink out of sight[127] and get transported to the Microverse world of K'ai. On K'ai, the Banner persona was restored, and the Hulk joined a rebellion led by Jarella against the evil warlord Visis. The Hulk and Jarella formed a relationship and they were prepared to wed when Psyklop found the Hulk and brought him back to Earth. With his savage state restored, Psyklop's base was smashed and the Hulk escaped.[128]

With vague memories of his adventure on K'ai, Banner was taken back to the military when psychiatrist Leonard Samson came up with a dual solution for curing Banner and restoring Betty to human form. Samson was successful in this; however, he used the siphoned gamma radiation to mutate himself into a gamma spawned Adonis. Samson romanced Betty Ross, making Banner so jealous that he purposely bombarded himself with gamma radiation and again became the Hulk to fight Doc Samson. When Betty vocalized concern for Samson over the Hulk, the Hulk fled the scene.[129]

The Hulk became the new pet project of the Parrington family. The Hulk was targeted by the Enchantress, who turned the Parringtons' daughter Samantha into a host for Valkyrie to battle the Hulk. The plot ended in failure and Samantha reverted to normal.[130] His next rampage through New York made Banner the subject of a military manhunt. He was rescued by Doctor Doom, [131] who smuggled Banner into Latveria in order to exploit his brilliant mind and then sent the Hulk out with a bomb in order to annex neighboring countries into Latveria. This was opposed by Doom's childhood love Valeria, and led to a battle between Doom and the Hulk. The Hulk fled when he realized Valeria could have been harmed if the fight continued.[132]

Doctor Strange recruited the Hulk, the Sub-Mariner, and the Silver Surfer to stop Yandroth from setting his Omegatron to destroy Earth. They formed a loose knit team of heroes known as the Defenders. The Hulk answered a call from the Avengers to help to stop Ares and the Enchantress from fulfilling a prophecy that would have given him mastery over the entire world.[133] The Hulk later ended up in Egypt, where he was talked into taking a part in a movie being filmed there. Banner was fired from the movie set and was caught in the middle of the Horusians God-Spawn battle, destroying their champion, the Colossus.[134]

Project: Greenskin
The US military built Project: Greenskin, aka Hulkbuster Base, as a specialized facility to capture the Hulk. Upon its construction, General Ross was replaced with a robot by the Leader. The Leader was disguised as Glenn Talbot in the hopes of not only destroying the Hulk, but replacing the President and Vice President with robot duplicates.[135] The Hulk foiled the Leader's plot, and in the aftermath of the battle, Doc Samson lost his powers. The Hulk fled into the desert, briefly encountering a mirage city that would vanish as quickly as it appeared.[136]

The Hulk was again captured by the military and cured by Peter Corbeau. Jarella transported herself to Earth to seek the Hulk. She was followed by an assassin sent by Lord Visis. To save her, Banner re-exposed himself to gamma radiation and again became the Hulk. When it was determined that Jarella's presence on Earth risked the planet's destruction, Jarella willingly returned to K'ai.[137] Sedated at Project: Greenskin, the Hulk battled the High Evolutionary's exiled New Man, the Inheritor, when the creature came seeking radiation to prolong its evolved state.[138] When the Hulk came across Lorna Dane, he confused her for Jarella and captured her. Lorna was saved by her fellow X-Man, Havok. Betty heard Bruce calling out for Jarella, prompting her to begin a romance with Glenn Talbot.[139]

Incredible Hulk Vol 1 144
Banner sought out Henry Pym in Washington D.C. to find a means to shrink small enough to return to Jarella's world. There, Banner learned Pym's talk had been canceled; this enraged him so much that he transformed into the Hulk, who went on a rampage. The Hulk ultimately saved Washington from Senator Morton Clegstead who, while trying to find a cure for cancer via gamma radiation, had mutated into a massive pile of ooze.[140] Returning to the Nevada desert, the Hulk was captured by Project: Greenskin and S.H.I.E.L.D. Banner was put on trial for the Hulk's rampage in Washington, D.C. Lawyer Matt Murdock (secretly Daredevil) represented Banner.[141] It seemed likely that the Hulk would be sentenced to death until Reed Richards offered to try and cure Banner with his Nega-Gamma Gun; however, this only strengthened the Hulk further, allowing him to escape.[142]

The Hulk broke into Pym's lab and consumed one of his shrinking formulas. This caused him to shrink to miniature size, and he was captured by the Chameleon, who was then working for Hydra. The Hulk attempted to escape Hydra's clutches with the help of Ant-Man; however. the unstable formula shrank him down to the Microverse.[143] As he shrank down to size, he ruined the fantasy world created by the Shaper of Worlds for the former Nazi Kronsteig.[144] Finally reaching Jarella's world, the Hulk, with Banner's intellect restored, again helped Jarella overthrow Visis. Pym's formula then wore off, sending him back to Earth.[145]

The Defenders
The Hulk was reunited with his fellow Defenders fighting Dormammu in Rutland, Vermont,[146] stopping Xemu the Titan's attempt to change children into members of his long dead race,[147] and lastly foiling a plot by Necrodamus to sacrifice the Sub-Mariner in order to free the Undying Ones.[148]

The Hulk was reunited with Jim Wilson, after which he learned of Betty's coming marriage to Glenn Talbot. He was forced to battle a Leader-controlled Rhino.[149] The Rhino and the Hulk were launched into space and ended up on the High Evolutionary's Counter-Earth, where they were embroiled in a battle between the New Men. During this adventure the Hulk met Counter-Earth's Bruce Banner, who was married to Betty Ross and had a son, Bruce Jr. The conflict ended with the Hulk and the Rhino being shot back to their own Earth.[150] With their ship blasted out of the sky en route to Earth, General Ross forced the Abomination to go out and keep the Hulk away from Betty and Glenn's wedding. The Abomination lost the fight, but he succeeded in his task. Learning that Betty was heading to Niagara Falls, he pursued her.[151]

Defenders Vol 1 10
The Hulk got sidetracked when he was recruited by Doctor Strange to rejoin the Defenders in searching for the Silver Surfer, clashing with Calizuma.[152] The group ended up in the realm of the Undying One, battling their leader the Nameless One and rescuing Barbara Norris.[153] They next clashed with the Enchantress and Executioner, ending with Barbara being revived as the Valkyrie.[154] The Defenders were then called to clash with the Omegatron, which, with the Valkyrie's aid, they destroyed.[155]

The Birth of the She-Hulk
One day Banner went to visit his beloved cousin, Jennifer Walters, who had become a Los Angeles-based lawyer. At that time Walters had been defending a hood named Lou Monkton, whom gangster Nicholas Trask had framed for murder. While Walters drove Banner to her home, one of Trask's henchmen shot her. To save his cousin's life, Banner improvised an emergency blood transfusion. The transfusion of Banner's blood mutated Walters, causing her to become the She-Hulk.[156]

Separated From the Hulk
Incredible Hulk Vol 2 77 Textless
The Incredible Hulk

Leonard Samson captured the Hulk[157] and succeeded in separating Banner's psyche and atomic structure from the larger atomic structure of the Hulk. The Hulk's body, with all personality and memory removed, was inert until Samson stimulated the brain within the body. This new incarnation of the Hulk escaped and became a greater menace than ever before.[158]

Banner became leader of a new Hulkbusters task force which he headed from Gamma Base.[159] Banner finally married Betty Ross, believing himself free of the curse of the Hulk.[160] During the honeymoon, Bruce became gravely ill and was hospitalized.[161] Due to his separation from the Hulk, Bruce's body began to lose molecular cohesion. The Hulk's body soon followed suit and he was defeated by the Avengers.[162] With the aid of the synthezoid known as the Vision, Bruce was re-merged with the Hulk. The original Hulk persona assumed control of the body;[163] however, the reintegration was unstable, and an attempt to stabilize, and possibly cure, Bruce in a nutrient tank resulted in the Hulk returning to his original gray incarnation who only manifested at night.

Rick Jones absorbed the excess gamma radiation and became a light green Hulk-like creature when he was pushed into the nutrient bath by General Ross, who was attempting to sabotage the experiment and kill the Hulk.[164] Bruce reasoned the best way to cure Rick was to use the machine from the Hulk's Cave to change himself into the Hulk. Little did he know that this was a subliminal suggestion placed by the Hulk himself, who, once free, smashed the machine to avoid turning back into Banner. Complicating matters, the Leader arrived, having followed the Hulk in hopes of regaining his faded intellect. When he found the machine destroyed, the Leader made a deal with the now-smarter Hulk to transfer Rick Jones' gamma radiation into himself. Shortly after, a dishonored Thaddeus Ross managed to take control of the energy creature Zzzax. When Ross and Jones were defeated and the radiation energy was transferred from Jones which caused an explosion in the lab leading.[165]

Ground Zero
Little did either the Hulk nor Banner know that the Leader had survived, and sent the vampiric Half-Life after him. The Hulk tore off Half-Life's limbs close to daybreak before the villain could pull himself together.[166]

The S.H.I.E.L.D. Council decided they had enough Gamma bombs so that Banner was no longer required and ordered Agent Quartermain to murder him. The mutant bounty hunters X-Factor managed to locate the Hulk and freeze him in place before placing a call to S.H.I.E.L.D. After transporting the Hulk back to Gamma Base, Quartermain went against the orders of the Council before blowing up several large explosive charges that wiped out Gamma Base. Quartermain took Banner and Rick Jones away from S.H.I.E.L.D. While on the way to the government stash of gamma bombs, Betty Banner was released from the Leader's captivity to help stall them. She revealed that she was pregnant with Banner's child. The Hulk decided to keep Betty safe, despite her being Bruce Banner's wife, not his. The quartet made their way to the government facility, but they found out -- too late -- that the Leader's henchmen Rock and Redeemer had already taken a gamma bomb. When the Leader detonated the gamma bomb in Middletown with the Hulk at ground zero, the Hulk was assumed to be dead.[167]

In reality, the Hulk had been transported to Jarella's world moments before the detonation. There, the Hulk helped a group of minor wizards to overthrow the "Grand Inquisitor" in return for a spell which was promised to rid him of Bruce Banner for good.[168]

Joe Fixit
When the Hulk returned to Earth, he took a job as an enforcer at a casino. Calling himself Mr. Fixit, the Hulk spent several months without reverting to human form. It was during this time that he met and dated Marlo Chandler, who would one day marry Rick Jones. Banner eventually returned and the Hulk's life as Mr. Fixit soon came to an end through the machinations of the Maggia.[169]

Multiple Personas
Banner found Betty working in a convent when he was attacked by Prometheus, an agent of a team called the Pantheon. The stress and anger of being unable to get to Betty caused the Savage Hulk persona to resurface and sent Bruce's psyche into turmoil. The Grey Hulk managed to keep the Green behind a mental door, but knew that since he had been unleashed once, it was only a matter of time before the Savage Hulk would take over.[170]

When the Hulk was needed to fight the Super Skrull, the Grey Hulk convinced Banner to bring him out instead of the Savage Hulk. The Gray Hulk managed to outsmart the Super Skrull and managed to save Betty. Inside Banner's mind, the Gray Hulk and the Green Hulk were fighting for dominance. Through hypnosis, Samson created the green intelligent "Merged" Hulk - an integration of Banner's separate personalities.[13]

The Pantheon
This incarnation of the Hulk joined the Pantheon. The Pantheon were led by Agamemnon, an immortal offspring of an Asgardian and a human. Unknown at the time was that centuries earlier, Agamemnon had offered any of his offspring to the alien Troyjans in exchange for the ability to pass his godhood down to his descendants.[171]

As a favor to their friend Jim Wilson, the Hulk and Rick agreed to help out at an AIDS benefit concert with Rick headlining and Hulk providing security. The concert was disrupted by the drug-addicted assassin Speedfreek, who was sent to kill one of the concert's attendees. Jim was stabbed defending the man, and the Hulk got rid of Speedfreek before he could kill anybody.[172]

During one of his missions with the Pantheon, the Hulk fought alongside a rebel force in Trans-Sabal against both S.H.I.E.L.D. issue Mandroids and the government mutant team X-Factor. Tran-Sabal's dictator Farnoq Dahn had promised the US government energy assistance if they helped him keep his place as unchallenged ruler. He was exposed as a psycho when he tried to win the war by tying a mother and child to two separate missiles and threatened to launch them if the Pantheon did not withdraw. The Hulk and X-Factor, working together, stopped him. The tyrant was forced to face his people for the crimes he had committed, but most of them still saw him as a god and bowed at his feet. He was then shot and killed by a traumatized Rick Jones.[173]

Pantheon member Atalanta was shot down in the Himalayas by the Troyjan warrior Trauma, and the Hulk, Ulysses, and Hector were sent to find her. Trauma found Atalanta and confessed his love to her before the Hulk showed up and brought down an avalanche on top of him.[174]

During this time Marlo was killed by a woman posing as Rick's mother. Because the Leader shared a mental bond with Rick, he offered to bring her back to life. The Leader attacked the Pantheon's headquarters, The Mount, using both his gamma soldiers and the U-Foes to distract the Hulk so that he could ask Agamemnon for help against Hydra. Agamemnon agreed to help and the Hulk left in anger. Agamemnon betrayed the Leader by sending the Hulk to Freehold in order to kill him. The Hulk crashed into Freehold during the middle of the Hydra invasion and when the Leader was trying to resurrect Marlo. Overcome with anger, the Hulk ignored Rick's pleas to stop and destroyed the machine because he thought that the Leader was lying and taking advantage of his grieving friend. The Leader was seemingly killed in the battle. The Hulk knocked the helmet off of Redeemer, saw the resurrected General Ross, and realized his mistake.[175]

When Agamemnon felt it was time to venture out into the world to reconnect with the common people, he appointed the Hulk as his replacement. On his first mission as leader he traveled to the Amazon to investigate a new company that was cutting down the rain forest. There, he was jumped by the Juggernaut who was working as an enforcer for the New World Order (NWO) and their leader, the Red Skull. The Hulk was captured and brainwashed into fighting the Avengers, believing that the Juggernaut was Banner's own abusive father. The Hulk was able to shake off the mind control when the Juggernaut praised him and he realized that Banner's real father would never have shown such kindness. The psychic backlash released the creature Piecemeal from his holding container.[176]

The Hulk began showing signs of instability when he began referring to himself as "Hulk" or "the Hulk" instead of "Bruce." As a favor to a former Pantheon member Perseus, the Hulk traveled to Loch Ness to investigate reports of a monster in the lake, which turned out to be Piecemeal. The Hulk was about to defeat him when the Madman interfered. After Perseus was killed, the Hulk killed Piecemeal and appeared to kill the Madman, but no body was found. Using his new power as leader of the Pantheon, the Hulk led a strike against a maximum security prison to free an ex-girlfriend who had been falsely imprisoned.[177]

Trauma returned and kidnapped Atalanta to make her his bride. With the help of the Silver Surfer and the Starjammers, the Hulk and the Pantheon attacked the Troyjan home world. Upon arriving they were all shocked when Trauma's father, the Troyjan leader, Lord Armageddon, told them the truth about Agamemnon. If they tried to take Atalanta back, then the Troyjans would take back the extended lives of the entire Pantheon. The Hulk, not caring about the deal, attacked Trauma, accidentally impaling Trauma on his own shoulder spike. With his last words, Trauma pardoned the Pantheon and asked his father to let them all leave in peace.[178]

Maestro
Quote1 You don't know what lies ahead for you. I do. Listen to me, Bruce... they're going to take it all away. You're going to end up with nothing and no one. Why go back to that... when you can stay here and have everything  Quote2
--Maestro
Exiles Vol 1 79 page 15 Robert Bruce Banner (Earth-9200)
Future Hulk: Maestro

The Hulk was taken into the future by Rick Jones' granddaughter Janis to fight his future self, Maestro. Maestro was a tyrant who had killed all the heroes and villains on earth and named himself emperor of the post-apocalyptic world. He had the intelligence of Banner and was twice as strong as the Hulk. Maestro was killed when the Hulk sent him back in time to ground zero at the moment the gamma bomb that created him had gone off. After killing Maestro the Hulk was sent back to the present, haunted by the thought of losing control and becoming Maestro.[179]

Betty Moves In
Soon after this, Rick and Marlo were married. At the wedding Betty told the Hulk that she wanted to move into the Mount to be with him. After the wedding, the Hulk was attacked by the disgraced Skrull warrior Talos the Tamed. In an effort to gain back some honor, Talos wanted to be killed by Earth's strongest warrior. The Hulk refused to fight because of how well his relationship with Betty was going and he did not want to risk losing his temper again. Later, the Hulk received news that his old partner Jim Wilson was at an AIDS protest that was getting out of control. He took him back to the Mount to give him treatment, but despite the advanced technology, Jim still died.[180]

The Trial of Agamemnon
Having discovered the truth about Agamemnon, the Hulk and the rest of the Pantheon made him stand trial. Agamemnon resurrected all of the dead Pantheon warriors to kill everyone in the Mount. Agamemnon tried to escape, but he was instead killed by Atalanta, which brought an end to the undead warriors. Achilles, still loyal to Agamemnon, tried killing teammate Ulysses, but the bullet ricocheted and hit Betty. The Hulk became so angry that he reverted to Bruce Banner's body with the Hulk's brain. Even in his human form he gave off enough gamma radiation to make Achilles vulnerable, and Ulysses killed him.[181]

Betty's Death & Resurrection
The Pantheon fled their former base, and the still mindless Bruce was taken into custody and temporarily placed in the care of Doc Samson while Betty was treated for the bullet wound. Nick Fury took Banner into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody because he was a fugitive. During Bruce's transport, Betty died and her soul was given the chance to go to heaven. First she wanted to visit Bruce to see if he still loved her. He calmed down when he saw her and was able to transform and escape. After seeing how important she was to him Betty decided to live and returned to her body. The Hulk visited the destroyed Mount and saw a hologram set up by Paris, telling him that he was now the leader of the Pantheon and that the Hulk had been fired from it.[182]

Living In Florida
Living under the last name Danner, the Hulk and Betty moved to a small town in Florida. To hide his green skin, the Hulk wore bandages all over his body and claimed to be a burn victim. Soon after their move a child was killed by a gigantic shadowy figure, and the Hulk was suspected of the crime because of his size. Upon investigation, the Hulk found out that the true killer was a deranged old man living in the everglades with the Man-Thing, and rescued a child. A few days later the Hulk and Betty offered their help to a young pregnant homeless girl. While at the clinic protesters attacked, and the girl was shot and killed. The Hulk offered the girl's father his help in bringing her killer to justice. They learned the killer was just a kid who had accidentally shot her when someone pushed him. The father revealed himself to be Speedfreek and tried to kill the kid. The Hulk hurled a car battery at Speedfreek, which covered him in battery acid, burning most of the skin off his face and causing him to flee.[183]

The Hulk learned that the Abomination was fighting cops in the sewers of New York and decided that it was his problem. The homeless were being cleared out because the police commissioner was working for a drug lord who needed the sewers for new drug routes. While the Hulk confronted the Abomination, the cops used the opportunity to clear out the homeless by killing almost all of them. The Abomination snapped and started killing all the cops, then took his battle with the Hulk to the surface. They crashed through the Daily Bugle before the Abomination jumped onto a news copter and crashed it. He used the opportunity to escape while the Hulk was distracted.[184]

Ghosts of The Future
An army squad led by Matt Talbot captured Betty. After the Hulk saw Matt shoot Betty in both legs, he went so far over the edge that he reverted to his Banner form, and Banner was taken into custody. During a jailbreak Bruce, still with the mind of the Hulk, ran towards a grenade and nearly died when it went off. He was able to transform into the Hulk before he could be killed, but a shrapnel fragment was left in his brain, extremely hindering his intelligence.[185]

Seeking a device to remove the shrapnel, the Hulk traveled to the Leader's Freehold. With the Leader dead, the hidden arctic sanctuary Freehold had been placed in the care of Omnibus. Omnibus believed that there would eventually be a nuclear war that would kill everyone on Earth so he decided to speed it up by ordering terrorist attacks across the world to cause strain on global relations. He had also mentally controlled many high ranking government officials including Talbot which explained his insane behavior. Jailbait overheard Omnibus' plan and exposed him to the people of Freehold and he was sentenced to death. The Hulk decided that the best way to save the world would be to pose as Maestro and claim to be the man behind the terrorist attacks. A psychotic Thor was sent to defeat him. It was a close battle until an atom bomb was dropped on top of them. The Hulk was believed dead by most of the world, but he had actually used a hidden Pantheon base to survive.[186]

Onslaught/Heroes Reborn
Traveling through Alaska, the Hulk ran into Janis and took her to an unused Pantheon, He was then mentally ordered by Onslaught to find and kill Cable. Cable and Storm were able to free the Hulk from Onslaught's control, and they joined the rest of the heroes in New York for the battle against Onslaught. The Hulk and Banner were separated after he destroyed Onslaught's body. Banner was among the heroes who sacrificed themselves to destroy Onslaught,[187] and the Savage Hulk was again unleashed on the world. Banner was seemingly killed when Onslaught was destroyed, but like all the other heroes who had seemingly sacrificed their lives, Banner had actually been transported to the Counter-Earth pocket dimension created by Franklin Richards.[188][189]

In this new pocket-universe, Banner and the new heroes were reborn. He lived a new life where he had gone to State University with Reed Richards, Victor von Doom, Tony Stark, and Henry Pym. Along with Tony's friend Conner "Rebel" O'Reilly they formed the Atomic Knights of the Round Table. Banner worked with them on an exosuit project; however, none of them could decide how to use it. Banner shifted his focus to gamma radiation research instead. After university, he began working for Stark Industries.[190]

Incredible Hulk Vol 1 453
Stark Industries became a target of the terrorist organization, Hydra, secretly funded by Victor von Doom. At the time Banner was creating a gamma bomb for the military which Hydra set off with Banner inside. The resulting explosion mutated Banner into a new incarnation of the Hulk. He clashed with Stark in his new persona as Iron Man.[191] The Hulk escaped and was later manipulated by Loki to attack the newly formed Avengers at their Avengers Island headquarters. The battle injured many of their members, decimated their base, and caused a breach in its power supply, the powerful gamma core.[192] The Hulk aided the Fantastic Four, Iron Man, and the Avengers in containing the breach and saving the eastern United States from destruction.[193][194]

The Hulk and his cousin, Jennifer Walters, sought the aid of Leonard Samson to find a means to stabilize the Hulk's mutation. Samson, also mutated by gamma rays, received a blood transfusion to stabilize his mutation, and Jennifer impulsively took a transfusion as well mutating herself into the She-Hulk. They joined together as the Hulkbusters and offered their services to Tony Stark.[195]

The Hulk aided the world's heroes in stopping Galactus.[196][197][198][199] The Hulk also aided the world's heroes when the Counter-Earth dimension was briefly merged with a universe from a distant cosmos (designated Earth-50) to create Earth-13 and prevented an invasion from the Skrulls and the Negative Zone before the proper status quo was restored.[200][201][202][203]

Back on Earth
While Bruce Banner was reborn into a new life on Counter-Earth, the Savage Hulk, again freed from Banner, still existed independently on Earth. The Hulk's body began giving off radiation equivalent to a nuclear bomb. The army found that anything that came within five feet of him would be melted by radiation. Betty showed up and the Hulk broke free. Moments later Jason the Renegade stepped from the shadows and shot the Hulk with a Pantheon gun which caused the soldiers to panic and begin shooting. The Hulk laughed off the bullets and escaped with Janis, leaving Betty in tears.[204]

The Pantheon had become a democracy and had outvoted Paris to bring the Hulk back into the group. Paris approached Henry Gyrich with a proposition to take down the Hulk for good. The Pantheon attacked Janis and appeared to kill the Hulk, but what he really destroyed was actually nothing more than a mindless cloned body the Pantheon had created. The Hulk destroyed their ship and headed towards Washington, D.C., with Janis, where she told the military that the Hulk would not run any longer. If they attacked him, then he would attack a major city in retaliation.[205]

While he was traveling through the Midwest, the Hulk and Janis were attacked by the Thunderbolts, whom he easily defeated. He then destroyed a dam to fulfill his promise of retaliation. The Hulk began having chest pains that would force him to keel over in pain, although at the same time he was physically becoming more powerful. Doctor Strange found that because of his split from Banner, excess energy from an alternate universe was channeling through him that could destroy the universe.[206]

Under extreme emotional stress, the Hulk returned to the Gamma Base where he had been created. He was ambushed by the newest person placed in charge of capturing the Hulk, Colonel Cary St. Lawrence. The Hulk considered this the ultimate invasion of privacy because he considered the Gamma Base "his place." He was about to kill her when he had the idea to take over an island in the Florida Keys which he renamed Hulk Island. He saved the inhabitants from a hurricane, and they grew to respect him.[207]

A few days after the hurricane, Janis showed up with an alternate incarnation of the Hulk who had come to Earth when the Hulk was teleported away by Doctor Strange. He offered his help to the Hulk, but the shrapnel in his brain was making him angry at everything; thus, he fought him until he was taken back to his own time.[208]

The Hulk was manipulated by Apocalypse into becoming one of his Horsemen. The Hulk agreed to serve Apocalypse if he would remove the shrapnel from the Hulk's brain. He battled the Absorbing Man and the Juggernaut, but they had been sent by the NWO with Rick and Janis Jones to stop this new incarnation of the Hulk, who was using the power of the Celestials. He nearly killed the Absorbing Man and the Juggernaut, but Rick jumped in and the Hulk swung at him. Seeing the crippled body of his best friend caused the Hulk to break free of the mind control and flee in shame.[209]

The alien Mercy sensed the Hulk's desire for death and sent him on a path to fight Mr. Hyde, but the Hulk wanted a good death and refused to be killed by what he considered an unworthy foe. Wanting to help put the Hulk out of his misery, Mercy sent him to one of his deadliest enemies, the Abomination. Sulking through New York, the Hulk found the Abomination, but because of all the damage done to his own brain, he hallucinated that he was in the Abomination's place and began letting out all his built-up rage from the last few months on him.[210]

Heroes Return
By this point, the Celestials had come to judge which universe would live and which one would die: Universe-616 or Franklin Richards' Counter-Earth pocket dimension. They sent their agent Ashema to Earth to show Franklin Richards his handiwork and force him to choose between one world and another.[211]

At this point, the Hulk on Earth-616 was on a rampage through New York City, bringing Doc Samson, Hercules, Spider-Man, and the Thunderbolts together to try and stop him. Meanwhile on Counter-Earth, the Banner-Hulk was on rampage through New York City as well clashing with the Thing and Thor. Doctor Strange found a link between the trans-dimensional energies coming from the Hulk's body and from Franklin Richards' mysterious blue ball. Bringing the ball into close proximity to the Hulk caused both him and Spider-Man to be transported to Counter-Earth; there, the two Hulks clashed, attracting the attention of the Fantastic Four, the Avengers, and Doctor Doom. It was decided that to save both realities from destruction, all the Earth-616 heroes would have to return to their native world. Both the Hulk and Banner were brought back with them. When they breached the gulf between both worlds, the Hulk and Banner were merged back together again.[212]

Self Destruction
After finally being reunited with Banner, the Hulk was transported to the site of his birth, the gamma bomb test site. The strain on his body was slowly killing him, and he was giving off massive amounts of radiation that were sufficient enough for the Maestro to absorb and return to life. Maestro was taken by trolls to be the newest mind to inhabit the Destroyer.[213]

Bruce and General Ross were attacked by the Destroyer and his troll minions. During the battle the Destroyer stepped in a pool of the Hulk's blood. It recognized that the Hulk and Maestro were the same being and drew the Hulk's mind inside of it. The Hulk was able to outsmart Maestro and crush him under a rock slide. Bruce was brought back to Gamma Base, where he established some kind of control over the Hulk, started rebuilding his life with Betty, and made peace with her father, General Ross.[214]

Later, the Troyjans attacked and Bruce and agreed to meet with their leader, Lord Armageddon. After seeing Bruce leave with the aliens, the press believed that he had heroically sacrificed himself to save the president's daughter. Armageddon wanted the Hulk's help in resurrecting his son Trauma with the device the Leader had previously used to bring Marlo back to life. The device needed a very large gamma power source in order to work and he planned on sacrificing the Hulk to do it. Bruce refused, but the Hulk agreed and stepped into the machine. During the process, however, the Hulk gave off too much radiation and incinerated Trauma's body. Armageddon agreed to live in peace out of fear of punishment from the Silver Surfer, but after the Hulk left, he leveled Freehold and killed everyone living there, including the gamma beings Jailbait and Hotshot. Bruce was given a secret pardon for his crimes as the Hulk for saving the president's daughter.[215]

Death of Betty Banner
Just when everything started going right with the Hulk, Betty nearly died due to gamma radiation poisoning that resulted from her time with the Hulk. Bruce was able to find a cure using his blood in a transfusion. But then she was pushed over the edge by the transfusion when the Abomination secretly switched it with his blood instead as revenge. Bruce went insane and tried to kill himself seconds after Betty was pronounced dead. Doc Samson stopped Banner, but he later transformed into the Hulk and escaped from Gamma Base. Banner began coming up with elaborate scenarios to kill himself, but he would always transform into the Hulk seconds before death.[216]

With Betty dead and Bruce believed to have killed her, General Ross again started to hunt the Hulk. Bruce figured out the truth behind Betty's death when he went to the homeworld of the Watcher and was given infinite knowledge. He returned to Earth to get revenge on the Abomination, but he let him go. Confronting General Ross, Banner told him that they were both to blame for Betty's death.[217]

Mental Cure
Due to the deteriorating effects of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and the chaos ravaging his mindscape,[218] Banner struck a deal with the Hulk's three dominant personalities--the Green Hulk, the Gray "Joe Fixit" Hulk and the "Professor" Hulk--essentially to time-share their existence in return for stabilizing his fractured psyche and providing him with release from his disease.[219] Despite the intervention of General John Ryker,[220] Bruce was able to retain control until the Leader provided the means to cure Bruce,[221] using genetic samples taken from the corpse of Brian Banner and added to the Hulk's DNA by Ant-Man. The transformation back into Bruce Banner triggered a catalytic reaction that repaired the damage to Bruce's cellular structure and cured the disease.[222]

The Order
The original Defenders, including the Hulk, re-formed when Yandroth surfaced again to menace the world. Though the heroes defeated his plan, Yandroth used his sorcery to levy a deathbed curse upon their heads, binding them to come together in times of crisis.[223] The curse magnified the egos of the cursed quartet until they became mentally unstable. They became the Order, seeking to end all threats to the Earth by taking control of it. Other heroes fought them, and the energies unleashed by the battle were harnessed to resurrect and further empower Yandroth. Coming to their senses, the Defenders stopped fighting and Yandroth was reduced back to his human form, defeated, and imprisoned.[224]

Planet Hulk
Main article: Planet Hulk
Incredible Hulk Vol 2 92 Textless
Planet Hulk

Banner sought refuge and peace in Alaska, where he lived as a hermit loosely connected to the town community. He was eventually tracked down by Nick Fury of S.H.I.E.L.D., who required his help in defeating the Hydra space weapon called the Godseye, which could detonate all the nuclear bombs in the world. Sent up as the Hulk, he discovered that the Godseye was actually a rogue S.H.I.E.L.D. weapon that could match the strength of any enemy. In the ensuing battle, the Godseye found that though it could try, it could not match the increasing power of the Hulk, since it was unable to duplicate Banner's unique ability to channel gamma energy even if it could duplicate the energy itself, and it exploded.[225]

A S.H.I.E.L.D.-commissioned space shuttle was sent to retrieve the Hulk, or so he believed. Seizing the opportunity to be rid of the Hulk, a group of superheroes known as the Illuminati decided to jettison the shuttle into space to a planet with no intelligent lifeforms. Unfortunately, there was a navigation error, and the Hulk landed on the planet Sakaar, a world filled with barbarian tribes, gladiator battles and ruled by a corrupt empire. The planet was situated near a portal, which gave it access to several different cultures and technologies. The Hulk was captured and became a gladiator. The Hulk subsequently ushered an uprising, overthrowing the current regime.[226]

Installing himself as king, the Hulk met and fell in love with a queen named Caiera Oldstrong. Together, they ushered in a new age of peace and prosperity for Sakaar. Caiera became pregnant with the Hulk's child, but died when the shuttle that brought the Hulk to Sakaar suddenly exploded, killing millions of people.[227] Driven to new heights of rage and fury, the Hulk swore revenge against the Illuminati, whom he held responsible for the death of Caiera Oldstrong. With his allies, the Warbound, the Hulk rode atop the prow of an alien warship as it set course for Earth.[228]

World War Hulk
Main article: World War Hulk
Reaching the moon, the Hulk defeated the Illuminati member Black Bolt -- who was actually a Skrull impersonating Black Bolt -- not the real one. The Hulk then proceeded to New York City, where he demanded that the city be evacuated and the presence of the Illuminati. As the time limit for the evacuation of New York had passed, the Hulk defeated Iron Man, and Avengers Tower was destroyed in the process.[229]

The heroes engaged the Hulk and his Warbound, but were defeated. After the Hulk became allied with Hercules, Namora, and the Angel, General "Thunderbolt" Ross called in the U.S. Army to dispatch the Hulk.[230] Despite the army's best efforts, including the use of adamantium bullets, the Hulk instead defeated them. Alongside his Warbound, he transformed an area near Madison Square Garden into a gladiatorial arena.[231]

Doctor Strange, mystically invoking a powerful old enemy, Zom, battled the Hulk. Barely holding back the demon Zom, Doctor Strange began to exhibit some of the demon's own traits. Strange sent the Hulk crashing into a building that crumbled upon him and the innocent bystanders who had gathered to watch the fight. The Hulk had protected the innocent bystanders. Distraught by his actions almost killing innocents, Doctor Strange stopped fighting, and, uncaring, the Hulk gave Strange a lesson on control and pummeled him into the ground.[212]

After implanting "obedience disks" in all of the captured heroes, the Hulk set Black Bolt, Mister Fantastic, Doctor Strange, and Iron Man into the arena. The Hulk had them fight each other. In the end the Hulk spared them, declaring he intended justice and not murder. The Hulk planned to destroy New York City and leave the Illuminati to their shame. Soon, a nearly insane Sentry arrived on the scene and a cataclysmic battle ensued between him and the Hulk. Sentry unleashed forces that nearly destroyed what was left of New York, but ultimately, it was a stalemate between the two. The Hulk then briefly reverted to Bruce Banner, and the Sentry reverted to Bob Reynolds. In their human forms, Bruce Banner was able to knock out Bob Reynolds.[192]

Warbound member Miek impaled the Hulk's longtime friend Rick Jones, and revealed that he had intentionally allowed the mass deaths on Sakaar to happen, knowing they were caused by former followers of the Red King and not the Illuminati. The Hulk and the Brood No-Name attacked Miek in retaliation. Betrayed and enraged, the Hulk unwillingly began releasing energy that threatened the Eastern Seaboard, and prompted Tony Stark to activate a series of satellite devices that opened fire and eventually left the Hulk in his Bruce Banner form, whom the devices rendered unconscious. S.H.I.E.L.D. imprisoned Banner in a facility three miles underground, and the other Warbound members were placed under U.S. custody.[232]

Red Hulk Incident
While Banner was incarcerated at Gamma Base, a new mystery revealed itself when the Abomination was found murdered in his homeland of Russia. The perpetrator soon revealed himself as a massive creature referring to itself as the Red Hulk. This new incarnation of the Hulk decimated the likes of the She-Hulk, Iron Man, Rick Jones in his new powered-up identity of a creature named A-Bomb, and even Thor.[233]

Banner was set free when the clash between the Red Hulk and A-Bomb caused an earthquake that damaged his prison. The potential threat to Banner's life triggered his transformation into the original green Hulk, and he wasted no time in confronting his new nemesis. The Hulk, caught unprepared for the Red Hulk's fighting style, was defeated in their first meeting and suffered a broken arm in the process, but the outcome was much different during their second meeting where the Hulk found a potential weakness in the Red Hulk and exploited it. Once the Red Hulk was beaten, the Hulk left without finding out the Red Hulk's true identity; however, Banner began spending his time trying to track down the Red Hulk before he could do more damage. On his journey, Banner ended up in Las Vegas where the Hulk had to team up with Sentry, Ms. Marvel, Moon Knight and even Brother Voodoo to quell a pack of Wendigo from devouring everyone inside a casino.[234]

Skaar
Meanwhile, on Sakaar, the Hulk's thought-dead son, Skaar, had risen. Skaar was progeny of Hulk and Caiera the Oldstrong. After Caiera's death a cocoon containing Skaar fell into the lake of fire. After a period of time, Skaar emerged from the cocoon, appearing to be the age equivalent to a human preteen. He quickly grew into what seemed to be an adult. Skaar wanted revenge on the Hulk was because he felt the Hulk had abandoned him and his world to death.[citation needed]

Skaar was exiled from his planet and was warped to Earth. Skaar confronted his father, who was then in his savage persona. Skaar was disgusted with his father's diminished intelligence. The Hulk engaged Skaar in a fight, which created a fissure that endangered a nuclear power plant. The Warbound were trying to prevent a nuclear catastrophe when they were unexpectedly aided by the Hulk and Skaar. Skaar, using the Oldpower, sealed the containment building and saved the workers at the plant. Skaar subsequently impaled the Hulk and left, claiming he would come back when he was worth killing.[citation needed]

Defenders vs. Offenders
Sometime later, the Grandmaster came to the Hulk with a proposition: if the Hulk chose to participate in a game and won, Grandmaster would bring his love, Jarella, back to life. The Hulk agreed, and was told he could pick a group of allies to aid him in the game. The Hulk chose his former teammates in the Defenders: Namor the Silver Surfer, and Doctor Strange. When the time came to meet their opponents, the Collector appeared with the Hulk's nemesis, the Red Hulk, and his team -- consisting of Baron Mordo, Terrax, and Tiger Shark -- and known as the Offenders. The Grandmaster gave the Savage Hulk Bruce Banner's mind and had each team member transported to the times and places from which the Hulk had gathered the Defenders. The Hulk faced off against the Red Hulk in Atlantis, where the Red Hulk pierced the Hulk's heart with a cosmic energy-charged trident. The Hulk was eventually revived by the Grandmaster, and he knocked out the Red Hulk with one punch.[citation needed]

Hulk No More
Afterwards, Banner was captured by A.I.M., and was detained underneath Gamma Base to be used to create a gamma-powered super-soldier program, headed by M.O.D.O.K. and backed by General Ross. M.O.D.O.K. was responsible for the creation of the Red Hulk, Rick Jones' transformation into A-Bomb, and the evil split personality of Doc Samson. The plot was uncovered by the She-Hulk. To infiltrate an A.I.M. base, Jennifer recruited reporter Ben Urich to help uncover the truth, and Urich, in turn, recruited Peter Parker to aid in photography. A battle soon interrupted the tank containing Banner, causing him to transform into the Hulk. When the two Hulks clashed, the Red Hulk used his radiation absorption abilities to steal the gamma energy from inside the Hulk, preventing him from ever becoming the Hulk again. As the base reached critical mass, the defenseless Bruce Banner was rescued by a now-intelligent A-Bomb.[citation needed]

In the aftermath of the explosion, Norman Osborn sent Ares to learn if Banner could still turn into the Hulk. When Ares attacked Banner, Rick rushed to his defense, but was quickly defeated. Ares was soon outsmarted by Banner, and he was locked inside a room built to hold the Hulk. After evading Ares, Bruce and Rick parted ways.[235]

Training Skaar
Banner confronted Skaar in the Mojave desert. After much deliberation, Skaar grudgingly agreed to allow Bruce Banner to train him on how to defeat the Hulk, should he ever return.[236] Bruce lured the Juggernaut into fighting Skaar,[237] and then Wolverine and Daken.[238] Soon after, the pair encountered Norman Osborn's Femme Fatales, Victoria Hand and Ms. Marvel.[239] Bruce discovered Betty Ross was alive, and was immediately attacked by a Harpy who turned out to be Marlo Chandler.[240] The pair come to the aid of the Fantastic Four, who were in the middle of a battle with the Mole Man and later Tyrannus.[241] Later on, Bruce saved Skaar from Doctor Doom.[242] Bruce and Skaar tried to protect Hank Pym from the Leader, but in this, they failed.

Bruce Banner (Earth-616) from Incredible Hulk Vol 1 610 0001
Bruce absorbing Gamma Radiation and Cosmic Radiation.

Bruce then assembled his own group of Avengers to try and save Betty.[243] Betty, who was angry with him for having married another woman, was used by the Leader to distract Bruce so that he could "hulkify" many A.I.M. marines and heroes. Bruce was captured by the Leader and hooked up to a virtual reality machine.[244] He was unwilling to leave the virtual world until he was convinced by Doctor Doom, who was also trapped. When Bruce escaped, he was saved from Doctor Doom by the Red She-Hulk, who was stabbed by Skaar and turned out to be Betty herself.[245] The Leader escaped and the Cathexis Ray Generator machinery was reversed, and all the radiation from the Hulked-Out Heroes returned back to the Helicarrier. Bruce then absorbed all the energy to contain it at the behest of Reed Richards. Doc Samson died trying to help. The Helicarrier crashed, and from the rubble, there emerged a new incarnation of the Hulk, who came to be called the Worldbreaker Hulk.[246]

Skaar had his chance to fight the Hulk at last. During the confrontation, the Hulk rescued innocent bystanders endangered by their fight. Skaar reacted to this act of compassion by ceasing his assault, but the Hulk continued his, causing Skaar to revert to human form. The Hulk was reminded of Banner's own abusive father and reverted to human form as well, recognizing that he would never be able to continue that fight without Bruce becoming Brian Banner. Banner apologized and embraced his son, and Skaar accepted his love.[citation needed]
Bruce Banner (Earth-616) from Incredible Hulk Vol 1 610 0002
Return of the Worldbreaker

Scorched Earth
The Red Hulk set himself up in the White House, planning to take over America. However, the Hulk showed up to foil his plan. After having Ross imprisoned in Gamma Base, Steve Rogers released him to stop the Leader's and M.O.D.O.K.'s joint contingency plan, called Scorched Earth. Banner was put in charge of countering the program and learned how to shut it down with clues from the depowered M.O.D.O.K.. Banner assisted the Red Hulk and shut down the Living Supercomputer running Scorched Earth, not knowing that this was a distraction created by M.O.D.O.K to cover the trail of his cloned successor, M.O.D.O.K Superior.[citation needed]

The Hulk Family
The Hulk family, composed of Skaar, Korg, A-Bomb, the Hulk, the She-Hulk, the Savage She-Hulk, and the Red She-Hulk all went into seclusion, ignoring the attempts of the government to bring them out of hiding. The Hulk's other son, and Skaar's twin, Hiro-Kala, set his sights on Earth, planning to destroy it with the planet K'ai. Hiro-Kala was confronted by his father. Skaar used his own old power to seal Hiro-Kala in a sphere of stone. Hiro-Kala was merged with the Worldmind to create a miniature sun, to use the Old Power to warm K'ai.[citation needed]

Heart of the Monster
After a wishing well's power was unleashed, the Hulk found himself facing some of his mightiest foes. One of them was the alien warlord Arm'Cheddon. He defeated and depowered the She-Hulk and A-Bomb as part of his revenge scheme against the Hulk. He then revealed that he had reconfigured his power-channeling abilities so that he could channel the Hulk's energy; the stronger the Hulk got, the stronger he got. When the Red She-Hulk interfered with the conflict, he hit her with the full force of his power. In a rage, the Hulk killed Arm'Cheddon.[citation needed]

Fear Itself
Bruce Banner (Earth-616) and Sanjay (Earth-616) from Fear Itself Hulk vs. Dracula Vol 1 2 0001
Nul, Breaker of Worlds.

When the Serpent was freed by Skadi, he called seven hammers to Earth. The Hulk was transformed by one of these hammers, becoming one of the Worthy: Nul, Breaker of Worlds. Rampaging through South and Central America, Nul was eventually transported to New York City where, teaming with the Angrir-possessed Thing, the two began battling a lonesome Thor. After defeating the Thing, Thor stated that he never could beat the Hulk, and instead removed him from the battle by launching him into Earth Orbit, after which Thor collapsed from exhaustion. Landing in Romania, Nul immediately began heading for the base of the vampire-king Dracula. Opposed by Dracula's forces, including a legion of monsters, Nul was seemingly unstoppable.[247] Only after the intervention of Raizo Kodo's Forgiven was Nul briefly slowed.[248] Ultimately, Nul made his way to Dracula's castle where the timely arrival of Kodo and Forgiven member Inka, disguised as Betty Ross, was able to throw off the effects of the Nul possession. Throwing aside the hammer, the Hulk regained control, and promptly left upon realizing "Betty's" true nature.[249] Claiming that he wanted to be alone, the Hulk separated himself from Bruce Banner and went to ask Doctor Strange for help to stop Nul.[citation needed]

Asunder
The Hulk resorted to Doctor Doom to separate himself from Bruce Banner, resulting in him removing the portion of the brain controlled by Banner and moving it to a gamma-free cloned body of Bruce Banner.[250] The Hulk moved underground, where he lived with a tribe of Moloids until Commander Amanda von Doom contacted him for help to hunt an insane Bruce Banner.[citation needed]

The Hulk helped the Mad Squad (Doom's team) to assault an island which Banner used as a base, where he was creating gamma-mutated animals in a series of experiments to become the Hulk again. The attack resulted in Banner's vaporization in a gamma bomb, which resulted in Bruce Banner again sharing the Hulk's mind, but still with his insane mind, and the Hulk refused to have any memories of his time as Banner. With the transformation shifted so that the Hulk was the 'dominant' persona, reverting to Banner when he became too calm, Bruce Banner led the Hulk to a journey in different locations around the world, including an old Russian space station, the City of Sasquatches; there, he protected the Sasquatch from Kraven the Hunter, and an old S.H.I.E.L.D. base, which ended with the Hulk waking up strapped to a chair with a needle pointed above him and Banner talking on a video screen. The recording of Banner revealed that he had finally discovered the cure for the Hulk, the components of which being what the Hulk had been gathering throughout his "journey;" however, Banner also revealed that he was no longer interested in controlling the Hulk, having come to recognize that he was a better person with the Hulk than he would have been without him. This prompted the two personas to join forces again to investigate Doom's latest plan, using the gamma cure that Banner had devised to restore the animals on Banner's former island headquarters to normal.[251]

Indestructible Hulk Vol 1 1 Textless
Weapon of S.H.I.E.L.D.
Bruce's reunion with his persona as the Hulk caused a reversion of the Hulk's intelligence. While spending time alone in the American desert, the Hulk was caught in the middle of a conflict between the army and Aquarius of the Zodiac.[252] The Hulk brought the Avengers a piece of Aquarius' suit that he had torn from the villain to investigate his identity, and he remained with the Avengers to confront the Zodiac,[253] as well as Thanos the Mad Titan, who revealed himself to be the group's master.[254] The Hulk additionally assisted the Avengers during their war against Cyclops and the Phoenix Five.[255]

After officially returning to the Avengers' ranks,[256] Bruce Banner approached S.H.I.E.L.D. to offer them a new way to put both his and the Hulk's abilities at their service. Bruce's intelligence could be used to create new technology for the betterment of humanity, and the Hulk's strength would be used against S.H.I.E.L.D.'s enemies. During his tenure working for S.H.I.E.L.D., the Hulk battled the Quintronic Man[257] and the Byzantine.[258] The Hulk even became part of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s secret splinter branch named T.I.M.E. to fight a group of time-travellers called the Chronarchists, who intended to reknit history in their image.[259]

Becoming Doc Green
One of Bruce's own S.H.I.E.L.D. assistants, Melinda Leucenstern, shot him in the head on orders of the Ancient Order of the Shield because they determined he was going to cause an extinction-level event.[260] Having suffered severe brain damage,[261] Bruce was eventually cured by Tony Stark using the Extremis virus, which further increased Bruce's mental capacity as a side effect.[262] Not long afterwards, the Hulk and many other heroes were exposed to countless secrets kept by the late Uatu the Watcher.[263] The vision he witnessed made Bruce mistakenly believe that Stark was responsible for him becoming the Hulk, since he had secretly tampered with the shielding of the Gamma Bomb on behalf of General Ross.[264] As part of his misguided revenge attempt against Iron Man, Bruce used his new intellect to tweak the Extremis dose in his body and unleash a new persona for the Hulk, the super-intelligent Doc Green.[264] Doc Green made peace with Tony after learning that the Gamma Bomb's original shielding had been over-bolstered, and thus Tony's tampering had actually refined the bomb's explosive potential so that it would not disintegrate everyone within the blast radius, with the result having been that Tony's actions had actually saved Bruce's life.[265]

Hulk Vol 3 6 Textless
As Doc Green

After coming to the conclusion that the world was in danger due to its many Gamma mutates, Doc Green determined that they needed to be neutralized. He developed a serum made from Adamantium nanobots that absorbed gamma energy[11] and used it to depower A-Bomb,[266] Skaar,[267] Red She-Hulk,[260] the Gamma Corps,[268] and finally, the Red Hulk.[269] The only Gamma mutate Doc Green did not depower was the She-Hulk, since he determined she was the only Gamma mutate whose life had been genuinely improved by her condition. Doc Green additionally realized that his intellect was slowly declining and would eventually return to its normal levels, those of the original primality of the Hulk.[270]

The Immortal Hulk
When an experimental fusion reactor started melting down, Bruce used the Hulk to absorb all of its radiation.[271] However, the new type of radiation being used on the plant threatened to cause the Hulk to detonate. The Hulk's friend Amadeus Cho assisted the Hulk, and in the process of saving his life, he used special nanites to transfer Banner's powers to himself.[272] Even though he had become effectively gamma-free,[273] Bruce started experimenting on himself with gamma-irradiated cells at his laboratory in Utah.[274] Bruce's experiments caused him to become the target of one of the visions of an Inhuman precognitive named Ulysses Cain, who foretold that Bruce would eventually transform into the Hulk and cause an onslaught.[275] When a contingent of superheroes confronted Bruce Banner about the vision, they learned of his experiments. Banner became agitated, and Hawkeye shot him in the head with an arrow equipped with a special custom-built tip.[274] It was eventually revealed during Hawkeye's trial that the arrow tip had been provided by Bruce Banner himself, and he had requested Clint to shoot him if it even became apparent that he would again transform into the Hulk.[274]

Bruce Banner (Earth-616) from Uncanny Avengers Vol 3 15 001
Temporarily resurrected by the Hand

Bruce's body was stolen by the ninja clan known as The Hand shortly after his funeral.[276] The Avengers Unity Division attempted to stop The Hand's resurrection ritual, but arrived too late.[277] Following a brief confrontation, the rampage of the Hulk, now again mindless, was finally contained within a magical doorway of Voodoo's creation, which allowed the sorcerer to enter Banner's soul and cleanse it from the Hand's corruption. Banner reverted to his human form and died in the process.[278] When Hydra took over the United States by the hand of an evil doppelganger of Captain America, head scientist Arnim Zola resurrected Bruce Banner to use the Hulk in an assault against the resistance known as the Underground.[279] Even though Banner refused to assist Hydra, the side of him that was the Hulk complied with pleasure.[280] As a result of a time-delayed device Zola had implanted, the Hulk's resurrection was temporary. Shortly before the destruction of the Underground's base, The Mount, his body deteriorated and he again died.[280] Banner's body was left behind beneath the ruins of the Mount.[281]

The Hulk's third consecutive resurrection came by the hand of the Challenger, an exiled Elder of the Universe who had returned for a rematch against the Grandmaster. He related to the Hulk's rage, and brought him back to life to act as his ace in the hole during the final round of a contest between each of the Elders' teams, the Black Order and the Lethal Legion, whose objective had been to seize the Pyramoids deployed on Earth by their masters during each round.[281] The Hulk agreed to help the Challenger retrieve the final Pyramoid since the Earth was going to be destroyed as soon as the contest ended, and the Hulk saw it as a way to free himself of the nuisance of humanity.[282] By this time, Bruce Banner's persona, that had been overwhelmed by the Hulk's psyche, came to the realization that this succession of resurrections was not a coincidence, but simply a manifestation of the Hulk's innate immortality.

During the final round, the Hulk rampaged to the Avengers Auxiliary Headquarters, where Voyager, the Grandmaster's own secret agent within the Avengers, had teleported the final Pyramoid.[283] The Hulk quickly defeated the Avengers that tried to stand on his way,[283] and he even destroyed the Vision.[284] Even though the Hulk managed to make his way to the vault where Voyager was hiding the Pyramoid, Wonder Man convinced him that the Challenger was as much at fault as the rest of humanity of not leaving him alone. When the Pyramoid was within his grasp, the Hulk destroyed it instead, costing the Challenger his victory.[282] Following the Challenger's defeat,[285] Banner went under the radar, with the resurrection of the Hulk becoming nothing more than a rumor to the general public.[286] Bruce started travelling the country aimlessly looking for ways to put the Hulk to use as a tool to bring justice in order to atone for his own sins.[287]

Reporter Jackie McGee tracked Banner[288] and was later aided in her investigation by Banner's former colleague Walter Langkowski. After Langkowski was taken to a hospital when he was badly hurt trying to break up a fight between two men, he transformed into Sasquatch and killed the doctors treating him. Banner intervened and battled him as Hulk in order to subdue him. Hulk discovered that the source of Langkowski's rampage was the spirit of his father Brian Banner who had possessed Langkowski. Banner was able to stop Langkowski by draining him of his gamma energy, depowering him. However, Brian was able to move from Langkowski into the body of Banner.[192]

Bruce Banner (Earth-616) from Immortal Hulk Vol 1 8 001
After being blackmailed by General Fortean into apprehending Banner in exchange for not charging Langkowski for the doctors he was forced to kill, Captain Marvel was forced to bring in the Avengers to bring Banner in.[289] However, Banner, as Hulk, was too powerful for the Avengers to defeat. So, Iron Man was forced to use an energy weapon laced with UV radiation to prevent Hulk from emerging and healing Banner but also leveled the surrounding community.[10] After being turned over to General Fortean and his U.S. Hulk Operations, Banner, as Hulk, had his body cut into various pieces and kept in jars for study. The experiments were overseen by Dr. Clive, who enjoyed taunting the Hulk. Dr. Clive eventually realized too late that Hulk had actually been allowing him to experiment on him in order to figure out the extent of his own abilities. Hulk then smashed his way out of the jars and put his body back together while also killing Clive as punishment for his sadistic experiments. Hulk then smashed his way out of the underground base he was in before transforming back into Banner.[290]

The Best Defense
Later, Banner found the corpse of a Doctor Strange from a possible future. After arriving in a small town in search of the Eye of Agamotto (missing from Strange's body), he eventually found an elderly man who was using the Eye to intimidate the townsfolk. The Hulk emerged and took the eye back, unleashing the spirit of the alternate reality Doctor Strange, who warned him of a disastrous future. Doctor Strange then transported himself and Hulk to Hell, where they confronted two demons who were trying to allow the disaster that would destroy Earth to pass and cause the future to arrive. Hulk proceeded to eat one of the demon's face, which scared the other out of his physical form. They next entered the Life-eater heading for Earth, and a battle ensued. Eventually, Mephisto arrived and defeated the Life-eater. Doctor Strange asked Mephisto if he could cure Hulk and Banner of the demon within them. Mephisto revealed that the demon within them was far stronger than he was. Mephisto then transported Hulk back to Earth, where the Hulk made his way back to the bombsite where he was born.[291][292]

Damned
In order to stop Hulk, U.S. Hulk Operations brought in Carl Creel, the Absorbing Man, to take the Hulk down and gave to him a Hulk Plug-In. Armed with his newfound abilities, Creel attacked the Hulk and with every touch he drained Hulk's gamma energy. This proved to be his downfall as he had also absorbed the One Below All (disguised as Brian Banner's spirit) within the Hulk. Creel's physical body then exploded into a disgustingly horrifying creature, with his body ripped in half[293] and his spine and skull talking for him. Hulk eventually subdued the possessed Creel but was stopped when Gamma Flight and Jackie McGee appeared in front of him. Hulk was then shot in the eye by U.S. Hulk Operations operative Agent Burbank who had been watching the whole time. Hulk flipped out and attacked Gamma Flight. While this was happening, Creel ran away. Hulk recovered from the shock, turned to see Creel running, and realized what he was doing. He chased after Creel but was stopped when Puck stood in front of him with an energy weapon. Hulk walked closer but was shot. Then the One Below All had Creel drain the leftover gamma energy in the area, which allowed the demonic being within Creel to used the Green Door to transplant the world into the Hell-like realm of Below-Place. Alpha Flight's members and McGee were separated and seemingly woke in different places in Below-Place disorientated. Hulk then greeted McGee by saying they were all now in Hell.[294]

Bruce Banner (Earth-616) and One Below All (Multiverse) from Immortal Hulk Vol 1 13 001
Hulk defeats the One Below All

Hulk and McGee traveled through Below-Place and found the One Below All. The One Below All taunted Hulk with manifestations of Rick Jones and General Ross. This caused the Savage Hulk persona to emerge, resulting in Bruce Banner separating from the Hulk. The One Below All planned to use the separated Banner and the gamma energy it absorbed to open a gateway that would lead to the rest of Earth and allow it to take it over. Hulk and the Rick Jones manifestation opposed the One Below All, but they were overwhelmed by a massive army of demons the One Below All sent against them. Then Carl Creel appeared before the One Below All, absorbed its gamma energy, and gave the energy to Hulk to restore Hulk's strength. The empowered Hulk dispersed the One Below All with a single thunderclap, stopping the demon's scheme and returning the surrounding area to Earth. Before fleeing the scene, the Hulk merged back with Bruce Banner, who revealed that he genuinely cared for his other half.[295]

Vs. U.S. Hulk Operations
Once again in hiding and no place to go, Banner contacted Betty and later appeared on her doorstep. He explained to an upset Betty that he didn't reunite with her after his resurrection due the emotional turmoil it caused him. Betty was then shot in the head by U.S. Hulk Operations agent Bushwacker. Banner transformed into the Hulk and went after Bushwacker even after being shot in the head. Bushwacked was unexpectedly rescued by Bruce Banner's longtime friend Doc Samson who held off Hulk until his head wound healed, allowing him to think rationally while Bushwacker escaped. When Hulk and Samson went to check on Betty, she had vanished. Hulk and Samson then went to the resting place of Hulk's friend Rick Jones but discovered that the grave had been disinterred, and Rick's body was missing.[296]

Bruce Banner (Earth-616) from Immortal Hulk Vol 1 16 001
"Joe Fixit" emerging

After learning from a gravekeeper than mysterious people had taken Rick's corpse, Samson and Hulk realized that the U.S. Hulk Operations had taken it. They traveled to New Mexico where the Hulk Operations' base was to take back Rick's body, but they discovered that the base had been abandonded and encountered animals monstrously mutated by gamma radiation. Hulk and Samson fough the animals with Hulk making quick work of them. Realizing too late that they had been lured into a trap, Buskwacker appeared and exposed Hulk to artificial sunlight to revert him back to Banner and seemingly killing Samson with a gunshot to the head. After getting shot, a powerless Banner hid in a hallway when the stress of the event caused his Grey Hulk persona to appear but in Bruce Banner's body.[297]

Banner was able to temporarily subdue Bushwacker and make a break for one of the base's adminstrative sections. After accessing the base's computer network, he gained control of the artificial sunlight emitters and make them generate large amounts of gamma energy. Once again able to transform into the Hulk and bloated with gamma energy, Banner killed Bushwacker and destroyed the base before escaping.[298]

Days later, Banner regained control over his body and discovered that his Grey Hulk persona had taken up residence in a motel in Reno, Nevada while he was in control. After having a conversation with his Hulk persona, Banner heard a scream and transformed into the Hulk to investigate. He discovered a monster resembling the Abomination attacking the motel's front desk. Banner confronted the monster and mistook it for the Abomination. After getting up close, Banner discovered that the monster was actually a resurrected Rick Jones transformed into a monster by the U.S. Hulk Operations to fight him.[299]

Personality
Quote1 When I was four, I saw my father kill my mother. And years later, I killed him. I didn't mean to. But I did it. I've got that kind of anger inside. That kind of capacity. But you... you have your own problems. And your Hulk's gonna have his own problems as a result. And you may not love everything you learn about yourself. But you're not a... you're not a monster. You're not me, Amadeus. You're not me.  Quote2
--Bruce Banner
Banner suffered severe trauma as a child inflicted by his father, and repressed it in his subconsciousness. Because Banner's mind is incredibly complex, the original trauma associated with the event that triggered his transformation into the Hulk stimulated the emergence of various aspects of his personality, corresponding to the different stages of his life. Each fraction of his complex mind represents a peculiar archetype fragmentation of Banner's multifaceted psyche.[23]

Because of that, Banner is often trying to hide his emotional damage, resulting predominantly in social isolation. And at the same time he is pursued by the destruction that Hulk causes, what culminates in more complications in his life. However, Bruce Banner is a self-sacrificing and heroic person. Endowed with a super-genius intellect, he is also one of the most brilliant and resourceful minds on Earth. Banner is constantly undertaken his career as a superhero while trying to find a cure for his condition. For a time Banner strategically acted in consonance with his Hulk persona, thus giving the Hulk a purpose. Banner has also stated that Hulk's reasoning and intelligence tend to fluctuate depending upon a number of factors at the moment of transformation. This results in the Hulk's standard persona varying from a raging monster to a more calculating fighter.[300]

Incarnations
Quote1 You... can't... break... a... man... who's... already... been... broken.  Quote2
--Bruce Banner
Hulk Incarnations from Immortal Hulk Vol 1 18 001
A simplified list of Hulk incarnations

The Hulk initially is characterized as a separate entity from Bruce Banner, a distillation of his human anger that gradually develops its own personality and memories separate from Banner's. Banner suffers from "Dissociative Identity Disorder," which stems from the abuse he suffered as a child. The Hulk has many incarnations, each representing a different aspect of Banner's psyche; there are hundreds or possibly thousands of other personalities of the Hulk, but only a few major versions have been seen to date.[23]

Bruce Banner - Bruce Banner is the emotionally repressed core personality, possessed of genius intellect. Banner can transform into the different versions of the Hulk, whereas his alter egos seem to be able only to transform into Bruce Banner.[23]
Incredible Hulk Vol 2 75 Textless
Savage Hulk

Savage/Child Hulk - The Savage, or more accurately described, "Childlike" Hulk is the most common version of the Hulk, though it possesses the mental capacity and temperament of a young child and typically refers to himself in the third person. The Savage Hulk is the reflection of the young child abused by his father, which is the source of extreme rage and resentment from which his dynamic strength is derived. However, he is naive, innocent, and kind. He often claims that he wants to be left alone, but this is because he is constantly attacked without the capacity to understand why. He really wants to be liked and is very loyal to his friends. The Savage Hulk is usually depicted as green-skinned and heavily-muscled with a loping, ape-like gait. While in a functionally calm emotional state, or at least as calm as the Hulk can be, the Savage Hulk is stronger than the Gray Hulk. While angry, he has the potential for limitless strength, depending on the height of his temper.[23]
Bruce Banner (Earth-616) from Hulk Vol 2 7 0001
Joe Fixit

Gray Hulk/"Joe Fixit" - The Gray Hulk worked for a time as a Las Vegas enforcer called "Joe Fixit." The Gray Hulk has average intelligence, although he occasionally displays knowledge and intellectual ability normally associated with Banner. He is cunning, crafty, hedonistic, arrogant, and distant, with a hidden conscience; various psychological assessments of the Hulks have identified this Hulk as the personification of the moody teenager that Banner never allowed himself to be. In most of his Las Vegas appearances, he appears only at night. According to the Leader, the Gray Hulk persona is strongest during the night of the new moon and weakest during the full moon. This aversion to sun/moon light vanished when the Gray Hulk's night-induced transformation trigger was later removed. Although he is the smallest of the Hulks, the Gray Hulk towers over the average human. He prefers to dress in tailored suits. Joe Fixit's base strength level is also the lowest of the three primary Hulk incarnations.[23] On at least one occasion, Joe manifested in the body of Bruce Banner, with the only noticeable difference in appearance being Banner's eye color changing from brown to gray.[297]
Totally Awesome Hulk Vol 1 1 Marvel &#039;92 Variant Textless
Merged Hulk

Merged Hulk/"The Professor" - The Merged Hulk was the merger of the personalities of Banner and the Savage and Gray Hulks.[23] The Merged Hulk was far more well-adjusted than most incarnations, as well as an associate and leader of the team of superheroic philanthropists called the Pantheon. Despite his exaggerated musculature, the Merged Hulk had a relatively normal looking face, resembling that of Banner. The Merged Hulk is the largest of the three primary Hulk incarnations and he also possesses a higher base strength level. While in a calm emotional state, the Merged Hulk is stronger than the Savage Hulk in a calm state. However, unlike the other incarnations of the Hulk, Bruce Banner subconsciously installed a type of safeguard within this incarnation. Although in the beginning he was stated to get stronger with his rage,[301] when the Merged Hulk's anger reaches a berserk level, he will transform back into Bruce Banner, though with the mind and personality of the Savage Hulk. From this point, he was stated to turn weaker as he got angrier.[302] It is unknown if he would currently have this limitation or not. For a while the Merged Hulk was renamed "The Professor," and instead claimed to be Banner's good side, or ideal self, as a personality created by Doc Samson. However, the creator of this incarnation apparently later retconned this as one of the reality distortions created by Nightmare.[303]
Bruce Banner (Earth-616) Incredible Hulks Vol 1 632 001
Green Scar, The Worldbreaker

Green Scar/"The Worldbreaker" - The Hulk of World War Hulk is a cunning and more powerful version than the previous incarnations, for he is the enraged version of the "Gravage Hulk." His rage is at its most focused, due to meditation training by his ally Hiroim. This incarnation has extremely high durability, shrugging off attacks that have hurt his other incarnations. He has had training in combat arms, including broadswords, spears, and battle shields, and is a capable leader and strategist. Another source of the Green Scar's strength in comparison to other versions was his lack of inner conflict, if not alliance, with Bruce Banner. There were several instances where the Hulk and Banner worked together strategically, such as acting to disable Dr Strange. Caiera, the Green Scar's wife, understood Banner as well, and both personalities loved her equally. This was the driving factor in the Banner/Hulk alliance. As a result of being caught in the explosion of the warp core of his ship which brought him to Sakaar, which destroyed the planet, the Green Scar's base level of strength was dramatically increased. While in a calm emotional state, he is the strongest primary incarnation.[304]
During a burst of unexplained anger from the Hulk in New York City, Professor X attempted to slow down the angered Hulk with intense power; however, the Hulk proved to be resistant to the Professor's psionic effects.[305] The Green Scar reached a new level of anger at the end of World War Hulk, after his fellow Warbound Miek attempted to provoke him to destroy the world. At this level, he started to release huge amounts of gamma energy from within his body, devastating New York, and causing quakes across North America. It would have taken but a couple of footsteps from the Hulk to completely destroy the eastern seaboard. If he had not let himself be stopped, then he definitely would have lived up to his "Worldbreaker" title, and would have completely destroyed the Earth.[232] After World War Hulk, Banner suppressed the Green Scar, preventing him from surfacing. He momentarily reappeared in battle with the Hulk's son Skaar, still identifying himself as the "Worldbreaker."[306] He seems to have resurfaced after Bruce regained his Hulk powers, his anger tempered from its "Worldbreaker" levels by another confrontation with Skaar, and was proven even strong enough to take down the Red Hulk without much of a fight despite the Red Hulk continuously absorbing the Hulk's radiation to empower himself.[307] The Hulk lived up to his "Worldbreaker" title by destroying a world (from a direct collision with the Red She-Hulk) in the Dark Dimension.[308]
Immortal Hulk Vol 1 2 Zaffino Variant Textless
Devil Hulk

Devil/Immortal Hulk - This variation of the Hulk persona originated as a response to Banner's need for a protective father figure. Due to his abusive childhood he was unable to imagine the idea of love without pain, so the Devil Hulk took the form of a demonic, reptilian monster within Banner's mind.[309][310]
Bruce Banner (Earth-616) from Incredible Hulk Vol 2 19 001
The Devil Hulk as he appeared in Bruce's mind

The trauma of Bruce's death during the Second Superhuman Civil War[274] and subsequent resurrection[281] allowed the Devil Hulk to suppress the other Hulk personas and become the "dominant" Hulk; though the Savage Hulk persona can still resurface if he is enraged enough.[311][310][312] He is extremely articulate, smart and cunning. For the most part, he acts in response to people that cause harm to others, and dispenses judgment on them mercilessly.[287] Unlike previous Hulks, he is content to wait inside Bruce, possessing a measure of power over Banner previous Hulks didn't have.[312] When Banner is in control, the Hulk manifests as a gut feeling that guides him through to his objectives.[287] In addition to the Hulk's transformation period being limited to nighttime, Bruce can't transform whenever he wants, or even at the first sign of trouble.[312] The Hulk always manifests when Bruce is fatally injured, but only once the sun is down.[286] Like every Hulk incarnation, the Devil Hulk possessed enormous strength but is proportionately stronger than ever. Examples of his strength include giving Thor a skull fracture following up a severe concussion that left him out of the fight, sending She-Hulk flying for at least two miles in a single blow, tearing apart the latest Hulkbuster Armor devised by Iron Man, and overloading Black Panther's vibranium-based Panther Habit; which was thought to be impossible, all while possessed by the One Below All.[10] The Devil Hulk also has incredible regenerative power. He quickly healed a large hole blown through his torso,[9] as well as put his body back together after it was sliced into pieces while possessed by the One Below All. In order for a part of his body to heal, though, it seemingly needed to be in close proximity to other pieces, and despite being segmented, Hulk was still able to move the separate parts of his body,[290] similar to Deadpool.[313] The Devil Hulk also has a desire to completely destroy human civilization, arguing that they're just one misstep away from annihilation anyway.

